BEIS0000329
BEIS0000329

(b= ab ree wernion

Fujitsu Limited - Company Profile

Head Office: Fujitsu’s HQ is at Marunouchi Center Bldg., 1-6-1 Marunouchi,
Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo. :_ Je-mail: http://www. fujitsu.co
President & Representative Director: Tadashi Sekizawa.

Employment: Fujitsu has 46,795 people working in Fujitsu Limited. There are
167,000 people working in the Fujitsu Group, in over 100 countries worldwide.

Capital: 237.7 bn yen as of the end of March 1997.

Major Business: Manufacture and sales of computers and information processing
platforms, telecommunications systems, semiconductors and electronic devices,
software and services. Fujitsu have 12 manufacturing sites in Japan and 22
elsewhere in the world.

Background: Founded in 1935, Fujitsu Limited is an international leader in
information technology, telecommunications, semiconductors and other electronic
devices. The worldwide Fujitsu Group includes over 440 consolidated subsidiaries
including Amdahl Corporation, ICL Plc, Fujitsu America, Fujitsu Microelectronics,
Fujitsu Network Communications, and 34 affiliated companies including Fanuc Ltd
and Advantest. Fujitsu’s technology, software and service companies posted global
revenues of more than $36bn (£22.5bn) in the fiscal year ended 31 March 1997.

Fujitsu’s business in the UK summarised:

Subsidiary Company: Business Activity:

Fujitsu European Centre for Research & Development of information

Information Technology Ltd technology on high performance parallel
computers, package development

Fujitsu Europe Ltd Sale & Maintenance of information

processing systems

Fujitsu Europe Telecom R&D Centre
Ltd

Research & Development of
communication systems (hardware and
software products)

Fujitsu Finance (UK) Pic Financing and financial operations

Fujitsu-ICL Computers Holdings Ltd Development, manufacture, and sale of
personal computers and servers

Fujitsu Microelectronics Ltd Sale of electronic devices, and research,
development, and manufacture of
semiconductors

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Manufacture and sale of communication

Ltd systems

ICL Ple Development, manufacture and sale of

information processing systems, and
related services

BEIS0000329
BEIS0000329

Fujitsu Systems (Europe) Ltd

Sale & Maintenance support of the
wholesale and retail distribution system,
financial ATM and HHT products used
in the delivery industry

Fujitsu Microelectronics Durham
Plant (UK)

Production of PCs

CilSal May 1998
Numbers Employed in the UK

Fujitsu Computers (Europe) Ltd.
(formerly Fujitsu ICL Computers Holdings)

Fujitsu Computers Ltd.
(formerly Fujitsu ICL Computers Ltd.)

Fujitsu Europe Ltd.

Fujitsu Europe Telecommunications R&D Centre Ltd.

Fujitsu European Centre for Information Technology Ltd.

Fujitsu Finance (UK) ple
Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Ltd.
Fujitsu General (UK) Ltd.
Fujitsu Microelectronics Ltd.
Fujitsu Personal Systems UK Ltd.
Fujitsu Systems (Europe) Ltd.
Total:

Source: OneSource for Windows UK Companies Vol. 1

(CD-ROM available in DTI BPR Library - updated monthly)

Notes:

BEIS0000329
BEIS0000329

1817

476

243

46

13

914

30

749

4363

1) Figures are the latest available and show the average number of employees
during the accounting year, including full & part-time staff (averaged for seasonal

cos.), and employees from consolidated subsidiaries (for holding cos.)

2) Figures include Newton Aycliff plant , now closed with the loss of 570 jobs

CilSal September 1998
BEIS0000329
BEIS0000329

Fujitsu European Centre for Information Technology Ltd (fecit) -
Stockley Park

fecit was established in March, 1996 as a multi-disciplinary centre devoted to the
development of information technology on the latest high performance parallel
computers. It has three main functions of equal importance: to provide expert
support for the research and development objectives of Fujitsu's European clients;
to support Fujitsu's own extensive research activities, developing scientific and
business High Performance Computing (HPC) products, and working with
independent software vendors in the development of scientific and business HPC
products; and to participate with research organisations throughout Europe in long
term fundamental research funded through ESPRIT and national research programs,
as well as via work funded directly by Fujitsu Japan.

CllSai September 1998

Working relationship between Fujitsu & ICL

Although Fujitsu now owns 100% of ICL shares, the two companies are run as
separate entities, basically to protect share values. There is however a ‘web’ of
commercial agreements between the two companies; Peter Bonfield set up an
exchange programme such that every year, engineers are seconded between Europe
and Japan to learn about each other’s work, spread best practice etc.

The two companies also work together in the development of certain technologies,
in particular multi-media. ICL has long been developing mainframes, but uses
Fujitsu technology for the Central Processing Units (CPUs).

Fujitsu has many other business interests, e.g. semi-conductors and telecomms, but
these areas are entirely separate from ICL.

When ICL floats in 2000, Fujitsu’s shareholding in ICL will reduce, but still remain
significant.

ClISal October 1998
