cwuo0000001
cwuo00000001

Letter to Branches

For instant updates: http//:;www.cwu.org — email: ele = GRO I

150 The Broadway, Wimbledon, London, SW19 1RX Tel: 3MMMKSTOMINIME Fax:
General Secretary: Billy Hayes (www.billyhayes.co.uk)

No: 489/13 12% July 2013

To: All Branches with Postal Members

Dear Colleague

Post Office: Findings of Second Sight report into Horizon computer
system

Branches will be aware from publicity over the last few days of the fact that
independent investigators Second Sight, have published an interim report,
examining “Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance” claims in relation to software
defects on the Post Office’s Horizon system. The Post Office agreed to
engage Second Sight and commissioned them to produce a report, following
claims that Postmasters who need to balance their accounts using the Post
Office’s Horizon computer system had been wrongly accused and some
prosecuted or made to repay money after the system apparently declared
non-existent shortfalls. The report is attached to this LTB

The report focuses mainly on the lack of internal IT audit processes of the
Horizon system and lack of maintenance of the hardware and architecture
over which data flowed. It has also picked up on issues over remote access
to individual cash accounts by Fujitsu personnel.

There has been much media attention to this report, with BBC news, reporting
on Five Live Radio, as well as on the internet (http:/Awww.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-
23233573). Many reports are critical of the Post Office, who defended its
position by saying the report states that there were no system wide problems.
It has admitted, however, that it raises questions about training and support
offered to some sub-postmasters. I attach the Post Office statement.

The Post Office has promised three initiatives on the back of the Second Sight
report, which are detailed below. Clearly, the CWU needs to be fully involved
in fulfilling points two and three of these initiatives in order to properly
represent our members and be included as a key stakeholder in the process.

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the
review of cases started by Second Sight last year. This would examine
the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all cases brought
forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any new themes which
emerge from these cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this
working party.
cwuo0000001
cwuo00000001

2. Areview chaired by an independent figure to determine how an
independent safety net might be introduced to adjudicate in disputed
cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other stakeholders will be
invited to take part in this process.

3. Anew Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and
others to raise issues and insights around business processes, training
and support, directly feeding into the organisation’s thinking at the
highest level. A key task for this forum will be to review support
processes and training to ensure they meet the standards expected of
the Post Office.

It follows that the CWU has concerns over the lack of independent
representation available to Postmasters. Indeed there has not been any
place for Postmasters to go to defend them when they have been wrongly
accused of effectively stealing money from the Post Office.

I will be writing to Paula Vennells, Chief Executive of the Post Office, to
ensure we are fully involved in points two and three of their recommendations.

Further developments will be provided in due course.
Yours sincerely

Andy Furey
Assistant Secretary

a

Post Office POL Interim
Statement on Finding Report. pdf
