FUJ00155252
FUJ00155252

From: Stewart Mike[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=STEWARTM]
Sent: Thur 04/09/2008 10:43:53 AM (UTC)
To: Jenkins Gareth Gi

Ce: Burton John GRO
Peach Miki GRO. i

Subject: I RE: Response to Action AP0108003 from POL/Fujitsu P&BA Workshop 1 August 2008

Chambers Anne O!

Gareth, Thank you that’s fine, it covers everything (at least from my point of view) will send to Shaun.
Regards Mike

Mike Stewart SDM On-Line Services
Royal Mail Group Account/UK Private Sector

FUJITSU

, Berkshire,
r internally!

internally

96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Jenkins Gareth GI
04 September 2008 11:24

I: Stewart Mike
Ce: Burton John; Chambers Anne O; Peach Mik
Subject: Response to Action AP0108003 from POL/Fujitsu P&BA Workshop 1 August 2008

Mike,
Sorry for the delays. I’ve run this past the ccs and they are happy it can be passed on to POL.
Presumably this is the action that Shaun is chasing you about:

Provide detailed explanation of the issue that impacted Craigpark BIM BE-0158102.

T have checked this out and we have seen this happen only 3 times in the life of TP since $90 (2 years +) and it has
happened Twice at Craigpark once which was benign. It was decided at the time that there could be a fix introduced (I
understand what is being proposed for the bug fix and if it were to go wrong could impact the whole estate so avoiding such
a fix sounds like the correct decision).

I suggest we reply to Shaun as follows:

1. We are aware of a very rare timing problem in Horizon that results in data from the Stock Unit Rollover Process
not being recorded correctly while a Stock Unit is Balancing

1. This results in a non-zero Trading Position on the BTS and so is very visible to the Postmasters

1. We are aware of only two occurrences of this problem in the last 2 years - one of which was at CraigPark in
December 2007 as described previously by Anne Chambers of Fujitsu's SSC

1. Asymptom of this timing problem is the occurrence of a specific event in the Event Log (a diagnostic tool which
is separate from the message journal). This event occurs fairly frequently for all sorts of reasons. However most
occurrences of this event in the Event Log are benign. Anne did note a benign occurrence of this event at
CraigPark in February 2008. As she reported in the request about CraigPark, she carried out detailed checks of
every rollover of that branch and was satisfied that the February event was benign, and there was only a system
problem in December.

1. Therefore a more accurate description of the problem is that we have many occurrences of a timing event in the
FUJ00155252
FUJ00155252

Event Logs. We have identified two occurrences of this event in the last 2 years which have resulted in an
accounting problem and the rest appear to be benign or had a minor effect which did not impact the branch
accounts. One of the occurrences of the accounting problem was at Craig Park and we have at least one other
occurrence of the event at Craig Park which has been investigated and shown to be benign.

1. We have a possible mitigation for the timing problem which has been identified. However, since there had only
been 2 occurrences of the accounting problem in two years, it had been the decision of the Release Management
Forum that the cost of implementing the mitigation would outweigh the potential benefit. This decision will be
reviewed in the light of recent evidence as part of the normal process

Does that cover everything?
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

wt Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services
does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
