FUJ00153371
FUJ00153371

From:

Sent:

To: ; Jarnail A
Singhf

Ce: Jenkins Gareth Gli GRO

Subject: Seema Misra CV

Attachment: cv1.tif

Attachment: cv2.tif

Warwick/Jarnail

CV of Seema Misra attached above. Please note the last paragraph on the first page under Personal Profile.
Original Statement has been sent to Jarnail by SD today.

Regards

Jon Longman

From: Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent: 07 October 2010 08:59

To: Warwick Tatford

Cc: Jarnail A Singh; John Longman
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Dear Warwick,

Thanks for the feedback. I'll try and amend as suggested once I've finished my further analysis.

At the end you mention “Varsani’s statement”. I don’t believe I’ve seen that so unless I’m sent a copy I can’t comment

on it.

I've just had a call from Charles, and asked him about the latest version of his report. He will contact his solicitor to
see if he should send it to me or whether it should come from you and get back to me later today. I did mention that I

was preparing a statement based on his report.

Have you received the latest version of his report yet? I assume that if I do get a later version, then I need to update

my statement to refer to it.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

_Gareth.Jenkins@
FUJ00153371
FUJ00153371

_http://uk fujitsu.com

we Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Warwick Tatford I
Sent: 07 October 2010 07:30
To: Jenkins Gareth GI; jarnail.a.singhi,
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Dear Gareth,
Please find attached your draft with my comments (in red). I abbreviate the Professor as M.
Many thanks for your hard work.

Warwick

Subject: Draft Witness Statement
Date: Wed, 6 Oct 2010 12:47:22 +0100
From: Gareth.Jenking, 3

All,

It was good to meet you last night and put some faces to names and voices. Following that I've now
attempted to draft a Witness Statement as discussed.

<<0a06.Witness statement Gareth Jenkinsv0.1.doc>>

Here is a first draft, and I'd appreciate feedback as to whether I have captured your requirements as to style
and approach. I appreciate that you probably cannot comment on the factual content.

As agreed, I need to do two further pieces of analysis and I’ve indicated with highlighted comments in boxes
where I should include these. However I thought it was worth getting a first draft of the witness statement to
you before doing that so you have a chance to review the Witness Statement in parallel.

I’ve heard nothing further from Charles McLachlan regarding an updated version of his Report. Clearly,
should such a report appear, I may well need to update the Witness Statement to reflect any changes.
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

b: http://uk.fujitsu.com
: Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this emait?

Office 22 Bak
fended recipient. is contents are subject toa duty of confidence and may be privileged, Fujitsu
e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

This e-mail is only for the use of
Services does not guarantee that

Sten eiieniiiinnnenannaneineeneneniaetits® Roval Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales
registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any
attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
FUJ00153371
FUJ00153371

disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender and then delete this email from your system, ***tt##+ststesetasteneesninenncnnneneaannenniee
