FUJ00155021
FUJ00155021

Page 1 of 3

From: John Longman 5645

D

Sent: 01 September 2011 11:02

To: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)
Penny

FAD code for Alderly Edge is 301432 and Astwood Bank is 346246.

Regards

Your Lougmass

Security Manager
Security Operations - South

Address: Post Office@ Ltd Security, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC 1V 9HQ.

von GRO

Post Ottce Ltd is 2 trading name of Royal Mail Group Ltd. Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540,
Registered Office: 148 Old Street, London, EC1V SHO

Contidentist inform ation: This emai me ssage istor the sole use of the inkended secipient(s) and may contain
confide ntigland privleged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure ar distribution is prohibted.
Hyon are nat the intended recipient please contact me by repy emeiland destiy aficopies of the orginal me ssage.

From: Thomas Penny {. GRO i
Sent: 01 September 2011 10:57

To: John Longman

Jane M Owen

‘Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood
Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Jon
Just to make sure there is no confusion, please can you provide FAD codes for both outlets.

Many thanks
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknel, Berks RG12 8SN,

tet
Mob:
Fax

E-Mail
won: Ripa cea

Fujitsu Senices Linvted, Registered in Englanc no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Stret, London WIL 38W

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 01 September 2011 10:43

To: ‘John Longman’

Cc: ‘Jane M Owen’

Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank
Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Jon

OK. I've read the requirements and spoken to an expert. We do not understand the question and need
clarification on:

The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon Mark 3,
the results of those assessments, the losses that were found within the system and details of
how those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with.

If you are talking about Horizon pilot we believe you will need to address your question to POL technical
experts. If it's something else, please quality.

I will proceed with identifying which information we will be able to provide and the estimated costs for so
doing

‘Speak soon,

01/09/2011
FUJ00155021

FUJ00155021
Page20f#o oy
Kind regards
Penny
Penny Thomas

Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujtsu Services Relall& Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell Berks RG12 85N

96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London WIUIBW

To: Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Penny

I am keeping well thank you ~and hope you are also,

I am sorry to bother you again with these information requests but there are still Spmr's out there who are raising Horizon integrity issues without exactly
specifying which transactions caused the problems, just like the West Byfleet case. However, for the Alderly Edge case, there is a suggestion that a
delivery of £1,700 worth of stamps to this PO on the 3rd May 2008 was incorrectly recorded by Horizon. I Nave ordered transaction log data and will
examine the transaction but may possibly need Gareth to assist on this one point

You have everything ~ point viii was the last request other than the subsequent e-mail that I sent you relating to the hardware information.

‘Thank you for your continued assistance.

Regards
You Lougeat

Security Manager
Security Operations - South

Address: Post Office® Ltd Security, 2 Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC 1V 9H

GRO.

Pod Office Ltd is a trading name of Royai Mai! Group Ltd. Registered in England and Wales number: 2156540,
Registered Ofte: 148 Cid Street, London, EC1V9HO

Contidentia! information: This emai me ssage is or the cole use ofthe intended recipient(s) and may contain
confite ntia!and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is pronibted,
Hyau are not the intended recipient please contact me ky repy email and destroy allcopes of the original message.

From: Thomas Penny £..
Sent: 01 September 2011 09:07

To: John Longman

Ce: Jane M Owen; Jason G Collins; Graham C Ward

Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi John
hope you are well
Ihave not received anything after item vii) - am I missing any of your note?

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thoms

Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell Berks RGT2 BSN

Mai. a
Web: ipiiokiajteucor

Fujitsu Services Limited, Rogistered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London WIU 38W

From: John Longman 3

01/09/2011
FUJ00155021
FUJ00155021

Page 3 of 3

To: Thomas Penny
Ce: Jane M Owen; Jason G Collins; Graham C Ward
Subject: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian'Wilson)

Hi Penny
I have been asked to assist Post Office® solicitors who are dealing with the above two cases whereby Horizon integrity is being callled into question. Both
‘subpostmasters have been prosecuted but are refusing to repay the audit shortages found during the investigation. The subpostmasters have both
employed the. same firm of Solicitors who are alleging amongst a whole list of concems raised, that the Horizon system suffers with inherent defects.

Post Office® Ltd has been asked to produce a large amount of information similar to the West Byfleet case. Some of the information requested’can be
provided by Post Office® Ltd but'some can only be provided by Fujitsu.

Could the following items be provided by Fujitsu for both Post Offices and if there is to be a cost to Post Office® Ltd for this information could an
approximate costing be provided before the data is obtained.

ASTWOOD BANK

i) Details of Horizon system testing with respect:to the ability of the Horizon system to produce information with sufficient clarity to’allow a
‘Subpostmaster to reconcile discrepancies.

ii) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Astwood Bank Post Office® for the period 1st November 2002 to 11th September 2008.

iil) + Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2009 and the reason for those updates.

iv) ‘The documents felating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark'2 and Horizon Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the

losses that were found within the system and details of how those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with.

ALDERLY EDGE

vy) Details of Horizon:system testing with respect to the ability ofthe Horizon system to:produce information with sufficient clarity tovallow a
‘Subpostmaster to reconcile discrepancies.

) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Alderly Edge Post Office® for the period 12th March 2005 to 28th February 2009,

vil) Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 ~ 2009 and the reason for those updates.

vill) The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the

losses that were found within the system and details of how those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with.

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203
registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must notiuse, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system. ****"**" nreeenaagaestaneaten

*** Royal Mail Gfoup Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203

registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OH This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are fot the named'recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce. copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system. **" raseehwerevarennwarsnwersenasraneeansa tent

#*2*** Royal Mail’Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203
registered office 3rd Fioor, 100 Victoria. Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not ttie named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

01/09/2011
