FUJ00155590

FUJ00155590
FUJITSU SERVICES: POST OFFICE ACCOUNT WEEK ENDED:
WEEKLY SERVICE UPDATE4 9th July 2004
SERVICE STATUS COMMENTS
Helpdesk Service ge I To date both the ‘Answered in 30 Seconds’ and the ‘Abandoned’ SLT's are performing

below target level. The ‘Answered’ SLT is achievement is currently at 72% vs. a target
of 80%. The ‘Abandoned’ SLT achievement is currently at 10% against a target of 5%.
This is mainly as a result Wednesdays problem relating to CAPO account holders.

Also contributing to the present achievement levels was the country adverse weather

_ I conditions experienced on Wednesday this week.

The Desk will adjust the PM's expectations on online service outages to 3 days based on
the analysis carried out by MSU. This change will commence from Monday the 12" of
July.

There have been 8 complaints raised for July:
Engineer timescales = 3

I Online service Timescales = 3

Hardware issues = 1

System = 1

Technical Services
Desk

11 incidents were raised this week, of which 1 of which is still open, though not
business impacting. 3 incidents were raised relating to the CAPO issue on the 7". The
other incidents were raised against issues that did not have a great impact on the on-
line service. Problem TSD0000502 has been raised against the EDS firewall issue that
had a great impact on the CAPO account holders on the 7".

I In June we experienced an unprecedented volume of service visits. The first week in
July has shown some improvement in the penalties being accrued, but the number of
failing calls so far this month is disappointingly high.

Local A priority calls are running at 92% against a target of 95%. The time on site
target is currently better than last month’s but still at 27% against a target of 24.5%.
Engineering Management are continuing to focus daily upon the main causes of failure,
and are reviewing instances of poor call handling of individual calls with agents and
engineers. They have also been instructed to focus upon making sure ‘A’ priority calls
are being handled with the right level of urgency.

Engineering Service

Engineers have been sent out more detailed instructions to carry out additional
confidence testing on peripheral items (notably keyboards, printers and pin pads) before
I leaving site. This will add a little time to the time on site, but should reduce the
numbers of repeat calls being generated. The engineers have also been issued with test

I cards for the keyboards which will enable further testing of the keyboards before the
engineer leaves site.

Earth Bonding Project.

I Planning for this project is underway and progress is being made with Romec and Post
I Office Ltd. The contact letter for the Branches and the call script have not yet been
finalised but are expected to be ready early next week. The agreement documents
between Romec and Fujitsu will be finalised within the next couple of weeks.

Back Office printer Swap Outs

Fujitsu Services are looking to begin swapping Epson printers in branches for OKI
printers, when the Epsons fail and a break fix call is made. It is hoped to start this at
$60, and a CT will be submitted early next week so that Post Office Ltd can formally
impact and prepare for this change.

Training Systems.
I There are six low impact software bugs under investigation. It is anticipated that the
bugs will be fixed at the next Training Counter build.

FUJ00155590

FUJ00155590
FUJITSU SERVICES: POST OFFICE ACCOUNT WEEK ENDED:
WEEKLY SERVICE UPDATE4 9th July 2004
Operational Business New Version of OBC20
Change (Branch) Version 5 successfully went live on 5" July 2004.

Event Offices — 023508

Royal Welsh Show — Fujitsu configuration 15/7/04

National Eisteddfod — Fujitsu configuration 29/7/04

Pembrokeshire Show — Fujitsu configuration 15/8/04

Event Offices - 023405

Royal Show Stoneleigh Park — Fujitsu configuration 2/7/04

Great Yorkshire Showground — Fujitsu configuration 11/7/04

New Forest & Hants County Show — Fujitsu configuration 24/7/04

Model Office PO Ltd at Fujitsu — Bracknell

A mobile counter is to be setup for PO Ltd personnel for $70/75 testing purpose at
Fujitsu site in Bracknell.

OBC S60 Joint Meeting

A second meeting is planned between Post Office Ltd and Fujitsu Services on
Wednesday 14" July 2004 to review the OBC End to End Processes and the impact for
ADSL.

The planned joint meeting between Post Office Ltd (NIET-Central), NBSC and Fujitsu
Services to review End to_End Unplanned/Emergency Closures has been rearranged to
Thursday 22" July 2004.

Project 146

51 former VSAT branches have now successfully rolled out and are operational as
ISDN. 15 branches are scheduled for Fujitsu attendance over next few weeks.

Operational Business No issues to report this week.

Change (Reference

Data)

Client Take-on

Operational Business No issues to report this week.

Change (Icon Service)

‘AP Client Services APS_

* Client Delivery No in coming Welsh Water files were received for last Friday, Saturday, or Sunday due
Agreement to issues with Welsh Water.

© Client Re-send There may be an issue with Quantum Emergency inbound figures. The overall volumes

seem lower than previous months. This is currently being looked at by POL / POA
jointly before progressing further.

TPs.

There were TPS file rejections on Ist July caused by connectivity problems between
Wigan & POL's Northern Data-centre. This was due to an Energis issues.

LFS
NO Planned orders file processed for the Ist July. See above TPS section.
Reconciliation Service There has been growing concern at the delay in replying to requests made to POL to

authorise NWB and DCS transactions to be set to F99.
After bringing this to the attention of POL this week, they have addressed the problem
and authorised MSU to F99 the outstanding requests.

Management The team is now putting more effort in to reporting on and investigating the service

Information Service availability (at Branch level) of the on-line services. A new section has been added to
the Service Review Book. Analysis continues and will be shared with Post Office Ltd
on an on going basis.

Benchmarking No issues to report this week.

Service

Message Broadcast 9 messages have been received and distributed this week.
Service

Security Service KMA Key Management

There are currently 15,613 active post offices, 25 post offices were closed and 7 new
post offices rolled out during the past week.

The key refresh smoothing algorithm was turned OFF on Monday Sth July, as a result

FUJ00155590
FUJ00155590

FUJITSU SERVICES: POST OFFICE ACCOUNT WEEK ENDED:

WEEKLY SERVICE UPDATE4 9th July 2004

no outlets were selected for key refresh.

The Key Manager has re-delivered the Network Banking Transaction Data Outlet key
to all outlets as they have rolled out and become "active". This is to prevent Network
Banking key related failures and help reduce the number of helpdesk calls being raised.

FAD 180828 the Isle of Rum still appears on the top of the key refresh report and has
until 29th July 2004 till it's keys need renewing.

There have been no other key management issues this week.

Prosecution Support Service

9 new format audit retrieval queries and I Adhoc query were received from Post Office
Ltd this week. Of this number 3 have been completed with the remaining 6 to be
processed within expected timescales for delivery. One witness statement was provided
on request from Graham Ward.

Members of CS Security attended Manchester Crown Court on 6 July 2004 as witnesses
for the DWP who were prosecuting a clerk employed at Urmston Post Office. Evidence
supporting transaction data previously supplied in connection with the outlet was given
and a guilty verdict was returned by the jury. Sentencing will take place in August.

An Adhoc request has been received from POL seeking the following data. - List of all
logging on and logging off data, to include FAD code, dates, times, stock unit, user ID,
for one month period commencing Feb 23 2004 to March 22 2004 inclusive, covering
100 outlets per month. This is currently undergoing investigation.

Security Administration
No security issues have been reported this week.

Data Centre No issue to report this week.

Operations Service & There have been occasional time outs relating the DCP issues this week. These time
Systems Management outs are well known, and the issues relating to them have been widely reported within
Service Fujitsu and to Post Office Ltd.

Business Continuity Test scripts for the S60 Business Continuity test for the weekend of the 7" and 8" are in
Service the final stages of completion

ADSL During the past week 371 branches received the ADSL hardware upgrade against a
Implementation scheduled target of 375.

We have employed 2 temporary staff members to telephone branches to ensure that
preparatory work (installation of cables) has been done correctly. This activity has
proven successful and will continue over the coming weeks. We are looking to tail off
this activity as we are finding that there are very few cables not connected.

The ADSL rollout is continuing successfully against POL supplied criteria. There are
now 1047 switched on.

We are continuing to Install the ADSL Hardware and progressing the ADSL Service
orders with Energis. Energis have now been able to up their beat rate due to the speed
that BT are provisioning Virtual Pathways around the country.

On line services: On Wednesday (7" July) there was a severe problem that affected the ability of CAPO
Network Banking / customers from using their accounts. POL confirm this was due top an EDS firewall
ETU / Debit Card problem. The net effect of this was that there were 90k cases where a request for

service could not be performed. The success rate for Withdrawals on this day was 82%
(against a normal figure in excess of 99%).
For the rest of the week the success rates for all on-line services exceeded 99%

Problem Management Problem TSD0000502 has been raised with respect to the EDS firewall issue on the 7"
that led to a severe service degradation for CAPO customers.

FUJ00155590

FUJ00155590
FUJITSU SERVICES: POST OFFICE ACCOUNT WEEK ENDED:
WEEKLY SERVICE UPDATE4 9th July 2004
Release Introduction ADSL has been re-started with a total of 1070 offices live on ADSL. The number of

branches that were supplied by Energis was significantly less than anticipated due to
the criteria that were agreed with Post Office.

The DDA Beeps package continues to rollout, and 99.56% have now been successfully
migrated to Beeps functionality. There are now just 164 PIN Pads to be upgraded of
which 74 require engineer visits to replace the cables and 56 are mobile units
(luggables) where the pinpad may not be connected. A Message Broadcast went out on
Monday to the mobile branches requesting that the pinpad is connected overnight at the
storage location. Additional cables for the pinpads have been placed on order this
week.

The Immediate package is still suspended. A letter will go out to Post Office tonight
requesting authority to restart the Immediate.

The Hub and Spoke documentation has been agreed by Post Office this week. Further
discussions are taking place within Post Office as to the location and they are
investigating the mobile van that currently operates an off-line service in Cumbria.

$60 RAB was held on Wednesday and subsequently Post Office IRF have confirmed
authorisation to proceed. LST signed off the Data Centre upgrade on Thursday. Data
Centre activities are underway currently.

Secure NT upgrade completed last weekend without incident.

Call handling process for SAP has been agreed and issued for approval. SAP Transport
Movement Process is currently being tested. There are on-going discussions with Post
Office to finalise the authorisation to perform the POL-FS SAP transports to the live
instance, PLP.

John Moran
Post Office Account: Services Management: 9/7/04
