FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

BP/ REP/ cooY.

Tihe Posi Office
Management Summary ‘CL

MANAGEMENT SUMMARY

a

Introduction

ICL is delighted to submit this "Statement of Capability and Interest” in response to the recent
advertisement in the European Journal. This document sets out what ICL and its partners
believe to be relevant capabilities to the businesses of both the Post Office Counters Limited and
the Department of Social Security Benefits Agency, and most importantly, how we can provide
a total managed service solution. Our partners in this consortium are: De La Rue, Hambros,
An Post/Escher and Girobank. ICL will be the prime contractor.

Our capabilities and combined experience will facilitate a proven and secure payments system
at much reduced operational cost. Basing the solution on Open Systems will facilitiate the
introduction of further Post Office counter automation.

In line with HMG's Private Finance Initiative ICL plans that charging will be based on business
benefit, usage and performance.

The ICL consortium expect to accept significant transfer of risk and collectively have the skills
and experience to manage this.

The consortium expects to market the benefits of the new service to the general public also
assisting on the development of new business streams for the Post Office Counters Limited.

Whilst there is no direct linkage to ALPS, this consortium does offer a migration path from that
project and builds upon that investment. It also plans for the migration of existing forms of
automation such as APT.

Consortium Approach

The scale of this enterprise is significant. A comprehensive consortium approach is necessary as
no single private organisation would be able to satisfy fully these requirements. Each member
of our consortium has a demonstrable track record of working in such a partnership.
Individually, each member has an enviable reputation and a wealth of recent relevant experience.
Together, we believe these organisations are offering an unbeatable end-to-end quality of service.

Additionally, ICL has a proven track-record in the formation of similar consortia, where ICL has
undertaken prime contractor responsibility for projects of comparable size and complexity, such
as the CHOTS project to automate the MoD's 18,000 headquarter's users.

ICL recognises that such a requirement will develop - this consortium is designed to respond
flexibly and speedily as business demands evolve.

Each member has a well! defined contribution which is in line with its stated business objectives.
The role of each partner reflects its relevant and proven capabilities.

ICL Statement of Page: 1 of 2
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/$ 165-58937/EN
The Posi Office y,
Management Summary ‘CL

For the Payment of Benefits, the consortium has full access to, and is able to exploit, existing and
proven payment systems and technology. Furthermore we have a well-defined development path
to embrace emergent technologies and related services.

1)

For the automation of the Post Office Counters Limited, our consortium is offering a world-
beating solution specifically developed for post office counter applications. This solution exploits
tandard commercial products and is already in use in a national Post Office (ie An Post).

The ICL consortium has ensured that a trusted and proven non-stop capability is included to
guarantee the security of an on-line service required to deliver benefits payments throughout the
UK. Our aim is to achieve complete payment reconciliation maximising fraud protection and
detection.

Our consortium brings access to proven and secure magnetic and smart card production,
distribution and authentication services and technology.

Our consortium offers a proven nationwide service organisation with demonstrable capability to
implement and roll out smal! and medium sized systems in large numbers.

We have ensured that a merchant bank is included within our consortium to provide the
comprehensive business case. They also, with their experience of the PFI, can construct the
necessary commercial undertakings between the consortium and the procuring authorities.

The ICL consortium will offer imaginative and innovative proposals that will guarantee and
underwrite the proposed new services.

Conclusion

The ICL consortium will offer an innovative solution supported fully by a range of credible and
experienced suppliers. The result will be a secure low-risk service solution backed by a
financially sound business plan. Most important of all, every aspect of our approach has been
chosen in the certain knowledge that the total solution will need to be adapted and modified to
meet the demands of future legislation and other business imperatives. Similarly it is essential
for the solution to facilitate and accommodate new technologies and techniques.

ICL Statement of Page: 2 of 2
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/5 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

The Post Office ‘CL
Contents

CONTENTS
Management Summary
Section 1 Introduction
Section 2 Statements of Capability
2.1 POCL Integrated Application Software
2.2 Payment Systems and Services
2.3 Provision of Magnetic and SMART Card Technology & Secure
Distribution of Cards and Printed Output
2.4 Marketing, Public Relations and Commercial Exploitation
2.5 Ongoing Support and Maintenance
2.6 Project Management and Systems Integration Services
2.7 IT Facilities Management
2.8 Provision of relevant Financial Services & Design of Commercial Services
2.9 Comprehensive Training Services
2.10 Change Management
2.11 Design, Provision and Management of Network Services
2.12 Systems Architecture and Design
2.13. Hardware Design and Manufacture
2.14 Pilot System Delivery and Management
2.15 Technical Support and Service Help Desk
Section 3 Qualifications
Appendix 1
Appendix 2
Appendix 3
Appendix 4
Appendix 5

ICL Statement of
Capability and Interest

COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/S 165-58937/EN
Tine Posi Office ‘CL
Introduction

SECTION ONE INTRODUCTION

International Computers Limited (ICL) submits its application to bid for the computer and
related services for the Post Office Counters Limited and Benefits Agency as set out in the
European Journal entry 94/S 165-58937/EN. We look forward to receiving the full Statement
of Requirement (SOR).

ICL has pleasure in setting out in the following sections the statements of capability, with
reference to relevant experience over the past three years, and the qualifications specifically
requested.

ICL, from its current knowledge of the businesses of POCL and BA has analysed the most likely
areas of capability to meet a Statement of Requirement. This analysis has led to the formation
of a consortium to provide full cover for these capabilities. Each capability is set out in
Section 2 - annotated with each partner's relevant current experience.

ICL has agreed to team with the following organisations to form a consortium in order to bid
and subsequently to be in a position to deliver the systems and services required. ICL will be
the Prime Contractor and will subcontract additional specialist resources as necessary.

The Consortium Members Relevant scope of capability

International Computers Limited Overall Project Management
. Systems Integration
Nationwide Services
‘Open’ Technology provision (full counter
automation including POS)

De La Rue Group Magnetic and Smart Cards
Standalone POS Equipment (Small Post H
Offices)

Secure Printing
Identity Systems

Hambros PFI Commercial Structure
Overall Business Plan
Financial System Security

An Post & Escher Post Office Counter automation and
business consultancy

Girobank Business development and existing business
consultancy

ICL Statement of Page: 1 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

The Posi Office ‘CL
Introduction

Girobank

ICL have
formed a
consortium
with specialist

(CL

organisations to
meet the
expected
requirements.

HAMBROS,

The following sections address specific areas of capability which ICL believes are relevant to this
POCL/BA requirement. They are structured as concise statements with further information set
out in Appendices 2 and 4.

ICL Statement of Page: 2 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
E

The Post Office s
Statements of Capability ‘CL

SECTION TWO = STATEMENTS OF CAPABILITY

The following areas are addressed in this section:
24 POCL Integrated Application Software
2.2 Payment Systems and Services

2.3 Provision of Magnetic and SMART Card Technology &
Secure Distribution of Cards and Printed Output

2.4. Marketing, Public Relations and Commercial Exploitation
2.5 Ongoing Support and Maintenance

2.6 Project Management and Systems Integration Services

2.7 IT Facilities Management

2.8 Provision of relevant Financial Services
. & Design of Commercial Services

2.9 Comprehensive Training Services

2.10 Change Management

2.11 Design, Provision and Management of Network Services
2.12 Systems Architecture and Design

2.13 Hardware Design and Manufacture

2.14 Pilot System Delivery and Management

N
a

Technical Support and Service Help Desk

ICL Statement of
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

Page: 3 of 29
Date: 23/09/94

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
Fe

Tine Posi Office y,
Statements of Capability “CL

2.1

POCL INTEGRATED APPLICATIONS SOFTWARE
CONSORTIUM MEMBERS: ICL & ESCHER/AN POST

We are able to provide a leading edge software and systems
environment designed specifically to support a wide range of “across
the counter’ Post Office services. The systems will allow POCL to
manage an increasing variety of customer interactions on behalf of
government agencies and financial institutions.

Our current understanding is that POCL may wish to implement an entirely new
suite of systems to increase both the range and the efficiency of their counter
services. ICL have chosen to work with the Irish Post Office, An Post, and the
software consultancy group Escher, to ensure that these requirements can be met
with an integrated solution specifically designed for this purpose.

An Post, under the umbrella project title "CounterAction", have over the past
eighteen months, successfully automated their Post Office Counters business. The
software has been developed with the Escher Group, and is based on standard
Microsoft Windows for Workgroups, Visual Basic, and Windows NT product
sets. The software runs on standard PC products and peripherals and provides an
intuitive graphical user interface.

Installing the systems in Ireland has allowed An Post to reduce the average length
of transaction processing time at counter positions and increase the availability
of information for counter customers. Of particular importance has been the
increased efficiency and security with which benefits payments are handled.

The new systems have put An Post's counters business in an ideal position to
develop the full potential of its retail sales ability and advance its customer service
standards. In particular An Post intend to maximise the potential return from
increasing agency client business.

We are confident that the relevant business knowledge and proven systems
approach that An Post/Escher will contribute to our solution will ensure that the
POCL and BA counter systems requirements will be fully understood and met.
Moreover, the modular design and inherent flexibility of the component products
and tools ensure that new application requirements and systems interfaces can
easily be accommodated in the future.

ICL Statement of Page: 4 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
Tine Post Office
Statements of Capability {CL

BENEFIT PAYMENT SYSTEMS AND SERVICE
CONSORTIUM MEMBERS: ICL & ESCHER/AN POST

We understand the enormity of this, and the need for security,
including service availability to the general public. The options
available need to be assessed against the full Statement of
Requirement.

There are some 20 million people who receive ‘benefits in the UK, with
approaching 1 billion payments in a year. The service to deliver this will need
to be secure, available, reliable and prompt. We believe it will also need to
provide flexibility to gain public acceptance.

To achieve guaranteed security total reconciliation will be necessary.

The system is also likely to need to cater for mixed automated and manual
systems until the full rollout is achieved.

The system will need to merit the confidence of the public, POCL and the BA.

Our technical assessment to date is that peak message rates are likely to exceed
300 messages per second, for the full logical system. ICL has demonstrable
capability in high message rate systems, such as the Departmental Central Index
of DSS. Emerging technology, such as ICL's massively parallel processors -
MegaServer - may be appropriate as a central database server. Similarly proven
payments software is available to the consortium and will be assessed against the
SOR.

ICL has proven capability to deliver service nationally to meet exacting customer
requirements, such as CHOTS and British Gas. ICL awaits the SOR to establish
any requirement for a national customer Help Desk facility for card holders and
other users, possibly using a freephone or local call mechanism.

ICL Statement of Page: 5 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Statements of Capability

Tine Posi Office (CL

2.3 PROVISION OF MAGNETIC AND SMART CARD CAPABILITY
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: De La Rue

De La Rue is the UK's leading provider of magnetic card and
associated technology with more than 60% of the UK market and
substantial share in Europe, Africa, and South America. De La Rue
is capable of handling the likely requirement for managing and
providing the 20 million magnetic cards necessary to automate and
secure benefits payments.

De La Rue are the UK’s
leading manufacturer of
magnetic cards and
associated products.

EUROCHEQUE

Their capability to produce
specialist cards can
confidently meet the
expected requirement.

De La Rue

De La Rue's experience includes:

* 17 years experience of plastic card manufacturing.

Card manufacturing and personalising done in a high security, purpose
built facility.

ICL Statement of Page: 6 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-S8937/EN
The Post Office ,
Statements of Capability ‘CL

* Fully approved for the production of VISA, Mastercard, Eurocheque,
APACS and many leading card issuing organisations such as Barclays,
National Westminster and Midland Banks, together with the Scottish
Banks.

* Manufacture of large volumes of cards for other sectors such as Telecoms
and Petrol Retailing.

. Personalisation services include embossing, encoding, matching to carrier,
enveloping, mailing, inkjet and laser engraving of secure alphanumerics,
photographs and signatures.

* Current capacity is in excess of 60 million cards per annum; this is set to
double in 1995.

. Distribution of the cards is done by a variety of secure methods.

De La Rue also brings capability likely to be of value in future requirements,
including:

Smart Cards
De La Rue is closely involved in the development of the International Smart Card
Standards and the delivery of:

* 25 million smart cards to French Banks.

* 3 million to French and Swiss Telecoms.

* 2 million to GSM mobile telephone users.

* 5 million to French & German Social Security & Health programmes.

Smart Card production capability is also in excess of 60 million per annum which
is readily expandable as market demand grows.

Smart Card secure premises and processes are fully approved by the major card
issuing bodies; all staff are vetted.

Secure batch and individual card distribution is also undertaken.

De La Rue Security Print

De La Rue is the leading security printer in the world. It is entrusted with the
printing of currency for over 100 countries, which recognise its unique
combination of security, quality and integrity.

De La Rue has the largest security print design operation in the world and works
in close cooperation with its R&D organisation and the specialist De La Rue
companies, which have expertise in particular areas, such as holograms, magnetic
and smart cards, photographic imaging onto documents, and other anti-fraud
features.

ICL Statement of Page: 7 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
The Posi Office
Statements of Capability ‘CL

Similarly, the distribution process is closcly monitored, whether it is the despatch
of single documents to an individual's home, or the bulk shipment of high value
documents under armed escort.

Despite automation of the benefits system, there may be a requirement for secure
documents and stationery which De La Rue is particularly well suited to provide.

De La Rue Identity Systems

De La Rue has supplied Identification Systems to many Government Bodies
around the world. State of the art image and biometric recognition and
processing technology works in tandem with secure personal identification tokens
to provide cost effective and secure systems for the identification and
authentication of the individuals.

ICL Statement of Page: 8 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Statements of Capability

Poca The Posi Office y,
het iCL

2.4 MARKETING, PR AND COMMERCIAL EXPLOITATION
CONSORTIUM PARTNER: GIROBANK AND MARKETING CONSULTANTS

ICL recognises the importance of setting up a marketing organisation
to educate the public and to maintain their confidence in the new
services and subsequently to exploit the services which will then be
available from Post Office Counters Ltd for DSS and other clients.

= The Post Office
ICL is aware of the requirement
THE NEW BENEFITS to publicise the new service for
AGENCY CARD both Post Office Counters

Limited and Department of
Social Security.

ICL’s capability to meet this
requirement has been shown in
the development of the
marketing plan for the National
Lottery.

vy FREEPHONE!

A key requirement associated with introducing new processes for benefit
payments will be to ensure that public confidence in the system is maintained and
that claimants are educated in how they are affected. To achieve this ICL will
accept, as part of the delivery requirement, responsibility for setting up a
Marketing Department with this as the prime initial responsibility. During the
lead up to implementation of the new processes advertising will take place on
television, the radio and in the press explaining the ‘why and how’. Leaflets will
be prepared and will be available at Post Offices and at DSS offices; a freephone
help desk will be set up for the period one month before and three months after
the new processes are introduced. This will be similar to the UK National

Lottery.
ICL Statement of Page: 9 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

The Post Office y,
Statements of Capability ‘CL

Once the network and infrastructure have been established the opportunity will
exist to market a service to many potentially interested parties who might wish
to utilise what has been put in place. These interested parties are likely to have
both regional and national requirements and are likely to include other
Government departments (eg. issuing of licences), utilities (bill payments), bus
and travel organisations and major event booking organisations.

This will involve managing the migration of existing business lines, eg APT, to
exploit the new infrastructure.

Careful consideration will need to be given to the timing for starting to market
other uses of the infrastructure. The Marketing Department set up to ‘launch’ the
new benefit payments process would expect to evaluate alternative uses of the
infrastructure and to lead the marketing associated with introducing potential
customers at a time agreed with the POCL and BA.

ICL Statement of Page: 10 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-S8937/EN
The Posi Office y,
Statements of Capability ‘CL

2.5 ONGOING SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES

él

CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL is the largest computer services organisation in the UK
supporting more than 250,000 systems. ICL is also the third largest
supplier and maintainer of retail systems worldwide with more than
250,000 electronic point of sale tills in Europe and the USA. ICL has
the infrastructure to deliver, implement and support the very large
numbers of small systems involved.

ICL Major Customer Service Offices

ICL has the UK’s largest
computer services
organisation.

This nationwide coverage
enables ICL to meet the
most demanding of response
times.

ICL operates one of the largest computer services organisations in the UK
employing over 2,500 skilled staff to provide maintenance, support and
professional services to over 6,500 organisations, including both ICL and other
vendors' customers. The national deployment of our staff allows us to provide
service for over 250,000 systems installed in over 32,000 customer sites.

Page: 11 of 29

ICL Statement of
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
The Post Office ‘CL
Statements of Capability ,

Our Call Reception Centre in Wakefield is designed to take over 500,000 calls
a year and operates 24 hours a day 365 days per year. Each call on average is
answered in under 3 seconds and from our 40 service locations around the
country, our 1,500 skilled System Service staff can give you a truly local service
24 hours per day, every day of the year including Sundays, Bank holidays and
even Christmas day.

Our huge investment in spares, currently around £45 million, held at both local
and national centres, ensures that there will be no delay in bringing your
equipment back into service.

ICL is the third largest supplier and maintainer of retail systems worldwide with
an installed base of more than a quarter of a million electronic point of sale tills,
from Marks and Spencer and J Sainsbury's in the UK to JC Penney and
Bloomingdales in the United States. The retail requirements for very high
availability are critical at the point of public contact and ICL has extensive
experience supporting the major retailers here and in the USA.

We are no stranger to the management of major distributed systems
implementation programmes such as:

* 15,000 devices for DSS STAP project

* 18,000 devices for MOD CHOTS project

* 25,000 devices for British Gas

* 31,500 devices for Camelot (National Lottery)

In all the above examples the equipment has been configured and ioaded with
relevant software specific to the end user requirement to minimise time spent on
site and to ensure minimal disruption to the business operation - especially
necessary within a retail environment.

ICL Customer Service was the first major British computer service organisation
to be awarded ISO9000 (BS5750) which we have maintained for eight
consecutive years.

We devote a considerable amount of energy to the continual measurement and
improvement of our service performance to meet the requirements of our
customers. Feedback from each service visit is monitored and the results from
independent customer satisfaction surveys are taken seriously. In the results of
the latest survey, the attitude of our service staff was rated as “near perfect" and,
on all aspects of service delivery, ICL was regarded as better than any other IT
service provider, including all the major computer suppliers.

ICL Statement of Page: 12 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
The Posi Office y
Statements of Capability {CL

PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND SYSTEMS INTEGRATION
SERVICES

CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL will act as Prime Contractor and will manage and coordinate alt
commercial and contractual aspects of the project. This role will
incorporate Project Management, the Project Control Office, Quality
management and the Technical Design Authority.

ICL has a long track record of successful delivery to time and budget, on both
commercial and government IT systems and complex systems integration projects.
This has been achieved by giving full weight to the use of professional project
management disciplines and techniques at all stages in a projects life cycle. ICL
conducts projects using the ICL Corporate Project Management Methodology -
PM3. This methodology is consistent with and similar to CCTA - PRINCE and
on a number of projects, ICL interfaces seamlessly with PRINCE managed
customer project teams.

Current projects cover an extensive range and scope including:

* The CHOTS project is providing secure office systems throughout the
MoD.

HOSIP, is providing the Home Office with systems in ports and airports
throughout the UK to effectively process non EEC arrivals

For London Underground a system was implemented in 15 weeks to
process penalty fares on their introduction. This system is now provided
as a managed service.

Within the Retail environment ICL has delivered many projects that have
required the installation of business critical systems in strict time frames with
significant emphasis on logistics and organisation. For example ICL supply all the
PC based till systems in Sainsbury's supermarkets, delivering and installing the
equipment for a complete store overnight at weekends.

Many of these successful projects have involved the establishment of partnerships
with other organisations to best address the customers needs.

All projects are conducted according to BS5750 principles with a strong emphasis
on quality assurance and management control.

ICL employs over 600 staff directly involved in systems integration for customers.

ICL Statement of Page: 13 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Tihe Post Office /,
Statements of Capability {CL

IT FACILITIES MANAGEMENT
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL
ICL has developed a £100m p.a. facilities management. Additionally

{CL has major total managed service contracts for distributed
systems and networks, such as Camelot.

CFM
Revenue
£M
80
70
60 CFM, as part of
the ICL Group,
50 have grown to
become a major
40
player in the
30 UK Facilities
Management
20 market.
10
1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
Clients are both UK based and worldwide, with Data Centre, Desktop and
Helpdesk services encompassed. As indications of size:
* ICL mainframe services within the client list support in excess of 22,000
connected terminals, with 49 contracts in both public and private sectors.
* Management of Service Helpdesks includes operations such as the Inland
Revenue Service Management Centre and J.Sainsbury's.
ICL Statement of Page: 14 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Tine Post Office ‘CL
Statements of Capability

* Desktop services for Lloyds of London and most recently for Shell. The
latter is a worldwide contract utilising our partnerships with Bell Atlantic,
Fujitsu and Sorbus.

* Total Managed Services such as the UK National Lottery (Camelot),
London Underground Penalty Fares and CHOTS.

* ICL has a substantial outsourcing business with Government, both local
and central eg Northern Ireland Civil Service (see Appendix 2).

ICL Statement of Page: 15 of 29
Capabiliry and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
Tihe Posi Office y
Statements of Capability ‘CL

PROVISION OF RELEVANT FINANCIAL SERVICES
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: HAMBROS

ICL's teaming with Hambros merchant bank ensures that any
proposals are backed by sound financial consideration and business
planning. Hambros is one of the largest independent London based
merchant banking groups.

For many years ICL has provided flexible and attractively priced financial services
to its client base. This has been operated on a partnership basis with major
merchant banks and funding is provided by a number of major clearing banks and
leasing companies.

Although not strictly part of the PFI programme, the National Lottery
requirements are similar in nature, involving the provision of £10s of millions of
up-front funding.

Hambros has been involved extensively in the Private Funding Initiative since its
inception. To date, many of Hambros’ formal mandates have been in the

transport sector. Hambros has also been actively involved in widening the
application of PFI to other sectors such as Health, Energy, Education and Prisons.

Hambros has relevant experience in:
* Advising on contractual arrangements

* Structuring, arranging and providing all of the financial components
Risk analysis, identification and evaluation

This experience has been accumulated across projects such as :

* Channe! Tunnel Rail Link (£3billion capital cost project)

* Rolling Stock Companies ("ROSCOs")

* London Transport/London Underground

* West Coast Main Line

Hambros is also retained by governments, major companies and lawyers
throughout the world as fraud prevention and security advisers. Hambros has
prepared the fraud and loss control specifications for a number of major
governmental and commercial projects with great success, usually in environments

and systems in which fraud, dishonesty and corruption had been considered
unstoppable.

ICL Statement of Page: 16 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Se The Post Office i
m= Statements of Capability CL

2.9 COMPREHENSIVE TRAINING SERVICES

CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL, as Europe's largest IT training organisation, will develop and
deliver the training programmes necessary to cover all aspects of
staff and management training at many different locations to a
rigorous timescale.

Peritas, as part of the ICL Group,

PERITAS are the largest IT training

organisation in Europe .

(AN ICL COMPANY

The DSS and businesses within
the Post Office already benefit
from Peritas’ services.

We believe the POCL/BA training programme will need to be delivered at local
training facilities throughout the UK and will need to have the logistical and
administrative capability to handle the delivery of training to over 40,000 staff
at all levels.

Peritas, ICL's training organisation, has proven ability to design, develop, deliver
and quality manage training programmes of this size and nature. Furthermore,
Peritas has access to the resources of the entire ICL group as well as a large pool
of associate trainers to enable such volume requirements to be managed

efficiently.
ICL Statement of Page: 17 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Sata tatements of Capabilit

Peritas has the infrastructure in place to manage and support training carried out
not only at our various training centres but also on site at any location in the UK.
Peritas also has extensive experience of providing training to support the mass
implementation of retail point of sale systems including the design, development
and management of successful “train the trainer" programmes. Peritas has its own
courseware production unit and this coupled with our in-house multimedia
expertise means that we can provide the full range of support documentation and
training aids.

Training for the National Lottery

Peritas is to train some 38,000 retail staff to operate on-line lottery terminals
which will sell up to 40 million tickets each week. Peritas will achieve this
training task before the launch of the UK National Lottery in November 1994.

This is the most logistically complex training project ever undertaken in the UK.
The training for retailers will be delivered within a five week period at over 150
sites across the UK in four different languages - English, Welsh, Gujarati and
Urdu. Each retailer will be trained on a dedicated terminal and supplied with a
manual for reference.

MOD CHOTS Training Programme
Peritas is the sole training supplier to the MOD on the CHOTS Secure Office
programme.

This project provides classroom training, supported by Computer Based Training
(CBT), at various levels to over 18,000 users, all of whom receive training to
coincide with the installation of their new systems. CHOTS itself is run on a
large network of UNIX platforms, using dumb terminals, the CBT being available
at every terminal.

The training is carried out in dedicated classrooms on the customer site with an
exact replica of the CHOTS secure desktop environment. The entire programme
being undertaken by Peritas, included training, management and support.

Training for the Retail Marketplace
Peritas has played an important role in ICL's success in the retail marketplace,
particularly in the area of Point of Sale systems. We have developed and
delivered integrated training programmes for large retail organisations, such as
Marks and Spencer and Sainsbury's.

The training solutions provided have ranged from the direct training of staff and
“train the trainer" programmes to the production of an audio-visual pack which
was used to train 25,000 Sainsbury's staff. All the training programmes have been
bespoke, delivered on site and involved the integration of scanning techniques,
store procedures and customer care training with the systems training. In all
cases support documentation has been produced in the form of training work
books, user guides and quick reference guides.

ICL Statement of Page: 18 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Statements of Capability

ota The Posi Office ‘CL

Peritas is currently engaged in a programme of training in the use of a bespoke
garage forecourt accounting system for Mobil. This programme is delivered at
various locations throughout the UK and involves coaching visits to staff at their
own workplace.

ICL Statement of Page: 19 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
Statements of Capability

The Post Office y,
iCL

CHANGE MANAGEMENT
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

The implementation of this programme will bring about a significant
culture change in the POCL, BA and their clients. For organisations
to change successfully, the process must be carefully planned,
clearly communicated, skilfully implemented and continuously
steered.

ICL is a large organisation which has undergone some dramatic changes and now
has a culture which continuously embraces the changes dictated by the business
and markets in which it operates.

The new benefit delivery system and the Post Office counter automation will
require at least 40,000 people to be briefed and trained and with ongoing advice
and guidance.

Three elements are crucial to the success of such a programme:

* A top management vision is crucial and must be communicated to and
shared by the management team and the organisation as a whole.

Human resources management policies must be an active component of
the change process

Encouraging participation at all levels helps bring about the integration
and co-ordination of technology and organisation.

ICL's drive for change was initially dictated in 1981 by the need for dramatic
business improvement. More recently change has been a necessary imperative to
be innovative, competitive and profitable. ICL has also used its experience and
developed capabilities to directly manage and steer change for customers as a
chargeable service at such places as the Defence Research Agency, HMSO and
DEVETIR. Further information about Change Management is provided in
Appendix 4.

ICL Statement of Page: 20 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
The Posi Office ‘CL
Statements of Capability

DESIGN AND PROVISION OF NETWORK SERVICES
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL has successfully managed national networks for Central
Government and has the largest global private network managed from
the UK.

A decision on network supply/management is not possible until a wider view of
the requirement is understood. Nonetheless, ICL has demonstrated a capability
to design, implement and manage local and wide area networks - including secure
networks.

ICL has a total of over 200 specialist network consultants working within the UK.
Our clients, specifically for network design, installation and management, include
DPSN and CHOTS secure MOD networks, CAA, BBC and DSS.

An example of ICL's capability to manage networks is in the management of its
own Worldwide Integrated Network Service (WINS).

The ICL network now serves 220 complex locations in 70 countries worldwide.
These locations include the major cities in the UK, most European countries
(including Eastern Europe), the USA, the Caribbean, South Africa, Japan and, via
the Middle and Far East, connections extend to Australia.

As an example of the number of suppliers that WINS manages, the video link
between the UK and America involves 19 different suppliers and sub-suppliers
including BT, MCL and Sprint in the USA.

WINS has managed a reduction in running costs from £14 million to £8 million
per annum. This saving has been achieved whilst in the same period the number
of user electronic mailboxes has increased from 13,000 to 30,000. Full details
on WINS are shown in Appendix 2.

ICL Statement of Page: 21 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-S8937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
Tihe Posi Office ”
Statements of Capability iCL

SYSTEMS ARCHITECTURE AND DESIGN
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL believes it is essential that any solution here must be within an
overall validated architecture with a single overall authority. ICL has
assisted in the development of architectures and frameworks. AILICL
developments are required to adhere to OPENframework principles
which are vendor independent and openly published.

The likely size and complexity of this project has many challenges for the services
and systems supplier to address. These will become evident at different phases of
project implementation. In order to succeed the supplier needs to be able to
show that technical and operational issues are managed and the system is
designed such that potential problems are foreseen and avoided.

Examples of the types of issues which have to be addressed include:
* Designing the counter devices to accommodate multiple and new
interfaces as technology changes.

The need to accommodate keyboards, displays, magnetic stripe readers,
bar code scanners and number pads. Future developments would include
smart card readers/programmers, signature recognition systems and other
biometric techniques.

Ensuring the interfaces are consistent independent of office configuration;
the software architecture must ensure that there is little difference
between the configuration and support of large municipal offices with
many windows and those in the small single counter post office.

Proving that the networking and central application design will scale to
the capacity required by POCL and beyond. End-to-end application
testing may only prove functionality; true system performance and
scalability needs to be designed and stressed as early as possible.

ICL, as a major IT supplier, has many customers where it has assisted in the
development and proving of complex end to end architectures. ICL has also
assisted major customers in strategic planning and migration of their architectures
and associated IT frameworks. For example Inland Revenue and Departments of
Social Security.

ICL Statement of Page: 22 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
The Posi Office y,
Statements of Capability CL

HARDWARE DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL's D2D design and manufacturing company can provide volume
products including bespoke designs and features in short timescales
to the highest standards.

ICL is able to specify, design, deliver, install and configure the hardware required
to provide the IT infrastructure to support the estimated 40,000 counter positions
in Post Offices throughout the U.K.

ICL believes that the majority of the required systems within the Post Offices can
be based on standard PC components. ICI.'s Manufacturing and Supply Division
(D2D) is ideally suited to build the systems and, if necessary, incorporate bespoke
elements specific to the Post Office needs.

D2D believes that quality is the cornerstone of its business. It has been awarded:
1S09001 Design Certification (1994) - this includes IS09002 Manufacturing
Certification; European Quality Prize (1993); SUN Microsystems - Outstanding
Performance Award (1993); Michelin - National Quality Circle Award (1992);
plus others in earlier years.

D2D's customers include: SUN Microsystems, Thorn EMI, Virgin Euromagnetics,
Camelot, ICL channels, MEIKO. The Virgin Euromagnetics PC was also designed
by D2D's design team.

D2D produces approximately 13,000 different configurations of its products
utilising flexible systems to handle all the specified PC software and hardware
variants.

D2D's contract for the National Lottery involves the complete manufacture of
1,000 terminals per week. The current estimated capacity is 150,000 - 300,000
terminals per annum. D2D's Bare Board manufacture and Printed Circuit
Assembly share the same facility; state-of-the-art Panasonic lines are used.

D2D has an established infrastructure for worldwide product distribution direct
to the customer.

D2D provides the Environmental PC to DSS where continuity and uniformity of
products are essential. D2D has provided more than 15,000 such PCs.

ICL Statement of Page: 23 of 29
Capability and interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
Tihe Posi Office y
Statements of Capability ‘CL

PILOT SYSTEM DELIVERY AND MANAGEMENT
CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

Where pilots are required and budget and timescales allow, ICL has
a proven record of establishing and running large, complex and
secure pilot trials.

Pilot systems have been used extensively by both ICL and its customers. The
drivers towards this approach seem to be an opportunity for an unknown
supplier to demonstrate capability, to share the risk of a major development, or
to eliminate potential suppliers in a competition. Customers embarking on pilots
are rarely seen to agree that a main driver is for the user group to get the
requirement right. Pilots have been known to fail in their objectives because they
have not been approached by the supplier or customer as a joint event with both
parties as partners. The customer, reluctant to be flexible in his approach; the
supplier concerned about escalating costs, trying to reduce his risk.

The way forward is for an open partnership, based on mutual respect of each
others pressures, costs and risks and agreed objectives. This is the ICL way -
based on trust.

The MOD Corporate Headquarters Office Technology System (CHOTS)
procured after a long selection process including a two year competitive pilot
period, is a good example of how ICL approaches the issues involved. 160
companies who originally bid for the contract were reduced to two competing
consortia. Details of CHOTS are included in Appendix 2.

ICL Statement of Page: 24 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Eyota The Posi Office ‘CL
She tatements of Capabilit

2.15 TECHNICAL SUPPORT AND SERVICE HELP DESK

CONSORTIUM MEMBER: ICL

ICL have considerable experience at providing Help Desk services
specifically tailored to the requirements of major customer
applications. ICL has the capability to set up a dedicated and flexible
service which can be extended to cover all aspects of the system as
required.

POCL are envisaging the implementation of new IT support systems throughout
their network of 22,000 Post Offices. These new systems wil! be supporting all
the day to day activities of Post Office Counters. A professional and responsive
Help Desk will be required to ensure that all reported queries and systems related
issues are dealt with promptly to minimise disruption to normal work. The Help
Desk should serve as the single point of contact for all Post Office user queries
and set up routes through to appropriate support authorities for different
elements of the system.

ICL currently operates a large number of Help Desks, both in house and on
behalf of major customers.

The ICL flagship in the development of Help Desks is its own Service
Management Centre (SMC) which delivers a comprehensive service to ICL's
customer base. Customer problems are assigned to Problem Managers who are
able to initiate remote diagnostic processes themselves via appropriate secure
routes and can as necessary call on skills and facilities from elsewhere within ICL
or externally.

Features of the Help Desk service can include:

* Logging of all calls

Progress monitoring through to resolution

Establishment of appropriate links to relevant system authorities
Automatic call logging if 24 hour cover is required

* Production of User News sheets, updates etc.

The use of “hot stand-by" servers, PC's and preformatted Novell server
discs.

ICL now offers Help Desk facilities as a managed service to a wide customer
base. Organisations currently benefiting from ICL's capability in this area include
the Inland Revenue, British Telecom, MOBIL and various parts of the Ministry
of Defence and the DTI.

ICL Statement of Page: 25 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
ae

rome

Tine Post Office

Qualifications

(CL

SECTION THREE

QUALIFICATIONS

3.1 Annual Reports and Audited Accounts

Copies of the last three annual reports and audited accounts showing profits over

that period for [CL are in Appendix 1.

-eeeeueH

ICL TURNOVER FOR LAST 10 YEARS

Sse 6 & fF Be DH 2

Year

ICL has been
continuously profitable
over the last ten

years with growing
revenues. Ata time
when most major IT
vendors were incurring
revenue reductions

and fosses this indicates
that ICL have continued
to meet its customers
changing needs.

ICL Statement of
Capability and Interest
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE

Page: 26 of 29
Date: 23/09/94

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

The Posi Office CL

Qualifications (

ICL's turnover, profit and R&D spend for each of the last three years:

1991 1992 1993
£m ém im
Turnover 1875.7 2447.8 2614.6
R&D Spend 222.8 242.9 208.9
Operating Profit 78.9 59.0 34.9
3.2 Relevant Experience

ICL's considerable experience is detailed within section 2 of this report
(Statements of Capability), This information is supported by the case studies
provided in Appendix 2.

3.3 Quality

ICL has company-wide BS5750 registration within the UK and 1SO9000
registration for all its businesses within Europe and Worldwide. ICL was the first
computing organisation to achieve this level of registration.

ICL is a member of the European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM),
and is now used by other companies as a ‘benchmark’ for Total Quality
Management (TQM) in Europe. ICL is also a founder member of the British
Quality Foundation, established in 1993. Peter Bonfield is Vice-President and
Deputy Chairman.

Our goal is to exceed our customers' expectations and to delight chem with
personal services; we call it Customer Care. Conformance to requirements, the
usual definition of quality, is no longer enough. If customer care is one critical
success factor, the other is continuous improvement, involving everyone in
making small improvements in products, services and processes, and in the way
they work and care for customers.

ICL Statement of Page: 27 of 29
Capability and interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
Qualifications

The Post Office y,
(CL

ICL’s commitment to
Quality has been
endorsed by being
awarded numerous
Quality Awards. This
indicates that:

ICL is committed to
doing everything we do
right, first time, on
time, every time

ICL's commitment to Total Quality Management has been independently
recognised by a variety of bodies and awards including:

* Queen's Awards for Technology 1993
* ICL Manufacturing Division wins EFQM Prize in 1993

ICL's Investing in People process used as role model for DTI sponsored
Investors in People scheme

“ ICL Customer Services short-listed for EFQM Quality Award in 1992
* British Quality Award 1990

. Management Today Best Factory Award 1989

* National Training Awards 1989

A list of ICL's Certification numbers for BSS750 are shown in Appendix 3.

Further information of Quality in ICL can be found in Appendix 5.

ICL Statement of Page: 28 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94
Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN

FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557
FUJ00119557

Saas The Post Office y
Sai Qualifications ICL

3.4 Criminal Convictions

ICL can confirm that there are no cases of criminal convictions or grave
misconduct in relation to our business.

3.5 Social Security Contributions and Taxes
ICL can confirm that it has not failed to pay social security contributions or
taxes.
ICL Statement of Page: 29 of 29
Capability and Interest COMMERCIAL-IN-CONFIDENCE Date: 23/09/94

Reference 94/2 165-58937/EN
