FUJ00098235
FUJ00098235

(bon
Corman
Glin Jue

> iwlrIss.
PATHWAY BOARD MEETING

Thursday 15th June 1995

eT

“POH
Venue : ICL, 1 High Street, Putney SW1 oe ie
Rm: 1401/2
Time s 3.00pm - 5.30pm
1. The Board, and Chairman's Remarks Sir Michael Butler
2. Minutes of 1st Meeting of the Board

- 12.5.95 Secretary
Resolutions Passed Prior to this meeting

Managing Director's Report J.H. Bennett
1995 Bid Budget A.E. Oppenheim
Any Other Business All

- Delegated Authorities

- Board Committees

Schedule of Future Meetings Secretary

«4 O. Wiporns,

FUJ00098235
FUJ00098235

PATHWAY GROUP LTD

BOARD MEETING 15th June 1995
MANAGING DIRECTOR'S REPORT Pathway
1. THE PROPOSAL fee Soh.

a, wee ote
16 copies of the proposal were submitted on time on 4% 1 ~~
Thursday 8th June. The proposal itself is of good Po eee
quality, is compliant. and does have a well argued j;°~"™ era SH,
case for a rapid roll-out strategy exploiting our Sten Pow
success with ALPS. This can give us a competitive P%« / cn
differentiation and can achieve two of the BA/POCL Suis
critical success factors earlier than any of our yn, Zed ,
competitors. It is difficult at the moment to “__— Parra
anticipate when questions will start, but we must Ace... ws
plan for these to be quite extensive and 44.1 19 'to
penetrating. The best evidence in terms of a short- }/~~~+t be
list decisions is that this will be made on or pe

teseh Cactus

around the 21st July. teow

2. PATHWAY SUB~CONTRACTORS

Although we were successful in getting illustrative
prices from all our sub-contractors suitable for the
proposal submission we now need to move quickly to
drive these to a much more competitive position. It
is likely we will end up with some 20 sub-contractor
agreements, many of which may have up to ten
different work packages. Managing this needs to be
a core competence within Pathway and a start point
we are planning is a Pathway suppliers conference in
July. We should use this as a briefing forum for
potential sub-contractors as well as an opportunity
to outline the plans and processes we intend
following.

3. PATHWAY LAUNCH PLAN

Although the press at large is broadly familiar as
Pathway as one of the bidding service providers, we
do intend following the. short-list decision in July
to take a higher profile with a press conference in
order to project somewhat more. forcibly the
strength, style and intent of this company.

4a. ORGANISATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

Now that we have a top level organisational -
structure in place, work continues to populate the.
directorates and to begin to construct some of the .
key processes we shall need to run this company .
properly. Later in the year we will need to

consider terms and conditions for all employees but -
for the moment staff will continue. to be. seconded on -

the parent companies terms. Forest Road

Feltham
Middx TW13 7EJ
/Contd......- Tel +44 (0)181 730 4140
Fax +44 (0)181 730 4124
5. PATHWAY SECURITY

We are taking steps now to tighten up _ considerably
the security of all information from Pathway. This
includes the issuing of the proposal sections to
interested parties including sub-contractors, having
an electronic sweep of Feltham to make sure the
security hasn’t been breached and tighten up all
aspects of physical security, data handling and
general control over secure documents.

6. ARRANGEMENTS WITH AN POST/ESCHER

This has been the most. difficult month we’ve ever
had with An Post/Escher. We did however finish on
the day the proposal was submitted with a signed
tri-partite teaming agreement which will carry us
through to contract. Keeping this agreement on the
rails will undoubtedly be a difficult task and we
are almost certainly to have more crises to manage.
The positive side is that we now have a joint
development programme between Pathway and An Post
and, the time scale plan which supports the
demonstration phase starting in July. At the moment
there is goodwill all round to make this new
agreement work.

7. ALPS

A more difficult month with ALPS, although the main
key milestones continue to be met. Unexpected
technical problems with the new Ergo Pro. PC’s caused
delay as did the slowness to respond to change
requests within Escher. Also the more difficult
part of the roll-out is just about to start which
involves the major Crown offices within London. As
a result I am now setting up regular Director level

reviews with POCL to ensure that we remain on top of
the project.

Pathway attended the Federation of: Sub-Postmasters
Conference in mid-May where we got excellent support
and comment from most of the delegates who visited
our stand. This was helped by the fact that we were
the only supplier at. the event.

John Bennett

FUJ00098235
FUJ00098235
