FUJ00156144

FUJ00156144
From: Lillywhite Tom[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=LILLYWHITET]
Sent: Thur 13/05/2010 4:13:30 PM (UTC)
To: Dunks Andy[Andy.Dunkg GRO;
Ce: ees Penny[Penny. Thomas: G RO Keeling David[David.Keelin:
ilkerson Guy[Guy.Wilkersong

Subject: RE: Triole- archiving?

OK, Andy.......' we will talk Monday. At least David and Guy have a heads up that something may be coming down tract
requiring their attention

From: Dunks Andy

Sent: 13 May 2010 17:10

To: Lillywhite Tom

Cc: Thomas Penny; Keeling David; Wilkerson Guy
Subject: RE: Triole- archiving?

Until I am able to go through the witness statements that I have already supplied, I will not know how much impact this
has. This will not be till Monday at the earliest, if I am not needed in court for the Porters Avenue case which is due to
start on the 17th May.

Andy

From: Lillywhite Tom

Sent: 13 May 2010 17:01
To: Dunks Andy

Ce: Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: Triole- archiving?

I notice the word contractually/operationally...please share this also with Guy Wilkerson and David Keeling, so that we
can impact effectively and determine what we really have/need to do. Copy me in and I will arrange a meeting if
necessary

From: Dunks Andy

Sent: 13 May 2010 16:58

To: Lillywhite Tom

Cc: Thomas Penny

Subject: FW: Triole- archiving?
Importance: High

Tom,
During an investigation into some ARQ data I asked a question about TFS calls and the lack of calls for a particular Post
Office before a certain date. Suzy sent a mail asking questions and got the reply below..

This has major issues regarding the help desk call analysis wittiness statements that I have supplied as I may have not
had visibility to all calls that had been logged.

I will have to go though a number of them and compare them with the archived data..

Andy

FUJ00156144
FUJ00156144

From: Gardner Paul A

Sent: 13 May 2010 16:47

To: Appleby-Robbins Susan; Singleton Rachel L
Ce: Dunks Andy; Atkinson Tony

Subject: RE: Triole- archiving?

Hi Suzy,

The following mail was sent:

From: Gardner Paul A

Sent: 02 September 2009 15:54

To: Allen Mark; Barnett Kevin; Blackstone Tony A; Breeze Angela; Bull Sarah; Cahill Ray; Charlton Sean; Darling
Stephen; Delaney David; Denham Steve; Edwards Diana; Field Mike; Forshaw Neil; Graham Jamie; Hall Timothy; Henley
Paul (WINO1); Luke Yvonne L; Marshall Simon; McDonnell Kevin; O'Malley Tony; Parker Alan (LON22); Povall Andrew;
Price John D; Priestland Neil; Richards Martin S; Rolland Glen; Russell Mark; Ruston Ian; Shaw Nick; Stearn Roger; Sujith
Pooja; Whitehead Linda; Whittingham John

Cc: Singleton Rachel L; Stoddart Ben; Floyd Stephen; White Debra; Robinson Helen

Subject: TfS Data Archiving

Importance: High

All,

Please be advised that the TfS Service Management Team is looking to archive all Triole for Service data that is older
than 13 months. As you are aware, we currently have a large number of users on the shared service which generates a
large amount of data. Eventually this could lead to performance issues relating to the TfS database and very long backup
times.

Please could you all consider this and let me know if this will cause any issues with regards to your particular accounts
either contractually or operationally.

Note it is currently the intent to retain all archived data at least to the end of the contract life and no data will be
purged. All archived data will remain accessible upon request. In addition monthly data dumps are available for all
accounts which can obviously retained locally for an indefinite period.

Please could I have you reply by COP 11" September.

Thanks,

Paul Gardner

TfS - SDM

FUJITSU SERVICE

East Wing, Middle Floor, Bay 25, 14 Cavendish Road, Stevenage, Herts, SG1 2DY

Fax: toe
E-mail: paul.a.gardné
Web: services. fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

I didn’t get any replies from either Steve Denham or Sarah Bull, of those that replied, all were happy.

There are several reasons why we have to archive the data:

e@ Performance will gradually deteriorate

e@ Backups will take longer and longer (They were already starting to overrun)

e Weill run out of disk space.
The final point became critical and by now the main database would have run out of space and TfS would have fallen
over. (Permanently!)

With regards to the points raised:
e Trend data should be available through the monthly reports
© Data is retrievable from the archive in the case that you have a prosecution. This can be supplied in Excel format
thru a 7799 call
FUJ00156144
FUJ00156144

e@ The Sword Database holds 25 months worth of data and records can be retrieved on request.
@ Data dumps can be retrieved from TfS which holds all records and updates (I can’t guarantee that they are all still
available, but they can be stored locally).

Pulling all records for one particular branch over a long period could be an issue. How important is this?
We can’t simply put all of the records back, but there is a possibility of extending the archive period (although not by too
much as we would run out of space again...)

Thanks,

Paul Gardner

TfS - SDM

FUJITSU SERVICES
East i
Tel:

Road, Stevenage, Herts, SG1 2DY

E-mail paula garage
Web: http:/www.fujtstSonVukT
Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free.

From: Appleby-Robbins Susan

Sent: 13 May 2010 15:44

To: Gardner Paul A; Singleton Rachel L
Cc: Dunks Andy; Atkinson Tony
Subject: Triole- archiving?

Hi both,

We've noticed today that a number of calls on Triole appear to have been archived; they're no longer available when you
type in the reference number, and don’t appear in the branch's profile browser. This will potentially cause us huge
problems as we won't be able to supply trend data or branch histories, and more worryingly, can’t provide support for
prosecutions.

Could you let me know if calls have indeed been archived- and if so, when this was approved by RMGA and by whom,
and what we can do to retrieve them?

Thanks,
Suzie

Suzie Appleby-Robbins
Engineering Service Delivery Manager

Royal Mail Group Account
Fujitsu Services
Lovelace Road. Bracknell. RG12.8SN

E-mail: Susan Appieby-Robbins

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office: 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.
This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that
this email has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free
