FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
Document title: CS Support Services Operations Manual
Document type: Operations Manual
Release: N/A
Abstract: This is the top-level procedures document describing the

activities carried out by the Support Services Unit within ICL
Pathway Customer Service

Document status: APPROVED
Owner: Peter Burden

Author & Dept: Richard Burton, A&TC, Technical Authors
Peter Burden

Contributors:

Reviewed by:

Comments by:

Comments to: Peter Burden

Distribution: Customer Service Director
CS Operations Services Manager
CS Support Services Manager
CS Infrastructure Services Manager
Pathway document library
SSC Manager
OTT Manager

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 1 of 67
ICL Pathway

CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref:
Version:
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

CS/QMS/004
1.0
07/11/00

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

Any hardcopy of this document is NOT UNDER CHANGE CONTROL unless
otherwise stated.

Version No. (Date Reason for Issue (Associated
\CP/PinICL No.
(0.1 25/9/00 First draft for internal CS review
0.2 17/10/00 Draft for comment within Support
Services
0.3 (03/11/00 (Updated in line with comments from
ithin Support Services
1.0 (07/11/00 (Approved version
0.2 Approval Authorities
Name Position Signature Date
Peter Burden ‘Support Services
Manager

0.3 Associated Documents

The version numbers and dates the following table shows are those that were
current when this document was written. If you wish to look at one of these
referenced documents, search for the document in the Pathway Document Library
(PVCS) and refer to the latest version.

Reference Version [Date Title Source
ICS/QMS/001 ICS Policy Manual ICL Pathway
ICS
ICS/QMS/002 0.1 (CS Process Manual ICL Pathway
ICS
ICS/QMS/005 1.0 8/11/00 (CS Operations Services ICL Pathway
(Operations Manual CS
ICS/QMS/006 1.0 8/11/00 _ICS Infrastructure Services ICL Pathway
(Operations Manual ICS
ICS/PRD/074 1.0 ICL Pathway CS Incident ICL Pathway
Management Process ICS
(CS/FSP/006 1.0 10/10/99 IEnd-to-End Support Process IICL Pathway
(Operational Level CS

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 2 of 67

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
(Agreement
ICS/PRD/021 3.0 ICL Pathway Problem ICL Pathway
Management Process CS
Definition
ICS/PRO/100 2.0 23/02/00 Routing of Software Code {ICL Pathway
Fixes ICS
ICS/PRO/102 2.0 23/02/00 (Daily and Weekly ICL Pathway
Procedures for the Release [CS
Management team
0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions
Abbreviation Definition
BRT Business Recovery Team
CMT Crisis Management Team
ICS (Customer Service
ICSRM (Customer Service Release Manager
KEL [Known Error Log
HSH Horizon System Helpdesk
(OCR (Operational Correction Request
IOSD (Operational Services Division (of ICL)
iOTI (Open Teleservice Interface
OTT (Operational Test Team
IRM Release Management
SSC ‘System Support Centre
SMC ‘System Management Centre
0.5 Changes in this Version
Version Changes
(0.1 First draft for internal CS review
0.2 Minor updates prior to comment from within Support Services
0.3 Minor updates, particularly in the OTT section
1.0 Approved version
© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

0.6 Changes Expected

(Changes

(Changes as a result of the annual review of this document

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

0.7 Table of Contents

1
2
3
4

5

System Support Centre
4.1 Overview..............
4.1.1. SSC responsibilities to first and second line suppott.................. 8
4.1.2 SSC responsibilities to fourth line SUPPOFt......... eee eeees 9
4.2. Applications support
4.2.1 Role of first line support.
4.2.2 Role of second line suppo we
4.2.3 Role of third line SuPPort...............ceeeeeeeceeeeceeceeeeseeseeeeteeeeeeeees 12
4.2.4 Role of fourth line support........0... eee eee eee eee eee eeeeneeeee 13
4.3. Operational change.
44 SSC reference kit...

441 OVEMIOW. 0. ce cece es eeeeeceeseeeeeeeeeceteteceeeeacaceesteeneateseeeeeees 16
4.4.2 Updating the hardware asset register................. cece 16
4.5 Diagnostic information... ccececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeecereneeeeeeeaeenee 17

4.5.1 I Maintaining the Known Error Log on the SSC intranet site.
4.5.2 Transferring knowledge between support units.
4.6 Diagnostic tools... eeceeeeeeeeceeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeee 18
4.6.1 OVOPVIOW. 00. eec cece cece ee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeneateneeeeneeeseseteeeeseeetatateneess 18
4.6.2 Developing diagnostic tools.
4.7 SSC intranet site..
4.7.1. Known Error Logs (KELs
4.7.2 Change proposals.................eceeeseeseeeceeeceeeeeeereeceeeeseseeeeneeeeeeeaee
4.7.3 Release management................ccccecceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseneeeeeeeeeeenee 19
4.74 Operational Change/Corrections.
4.7.5 Work Instructions.
4.7.6 Other facilities...

4.8 Access to the live SySteM...............cecececceceececeeeeseeeeeseeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeees 20
4.9 Additional technical support to Pathway CS... 21
Operational Test Team (OTT).

5.1. Overview.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 67
ICL Pathway

FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

5.2 Scheduling testing
5.3 Controlling testing

5.4 — Recording rig problems. .................cccceeecceeeeee cece ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeets 23
5.5 Controlling OTT document. ...............esceceeseseseceeeseeeeeeeseseeneeteeeeees 24
5.5.1. Creating a new OTT document
5.5.2 Updating an existing OTT document.
5.6 Recording the fix level of the test rig
6 Release Management. ................:cecccceceeseeceseeseeseseecceceseeseeeseeseeeeseeateees
6.1.1. Deciding whether a software fix should be developed.............. 25
6.1.2 Defining the release plan and time scales...
6.1.3. Managing the delivery of supporting services.
6.1.4 Creating the software fix... eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeeneeeeeee
6.1.5  Re-raising a release Note... eee eeeeeee ee ceeeeeeeeeeeeeee 29
6.1.6 Authorising the software fix... eee cece eeeeeeeeeeeereneeeeeees 29
6.1.7 Completing the release process
6.1.8 Work Instructions.
7 Business continuity.
8 Appendix A Process diagrams. ..............:ccceceecescesceceeeeseeseeeeeeeseeeees 31

A.1__ First and second line support.
A.2._ Third and fourth line support.
A.3 Support and release management process.

A.4 Deciding whether a software fix should be developed..................... 34
9 Appendix B_ Operational Correction Request form..............::::00+ 36

10 AppendixC SSC Business Recovery Plan
10.1 Section 1 ICL Pathway Generic.

10.1.1
10.1.2
10.1.3
10.1.4
10.1.5
10.1.6
10.1.7
10.1.8

10.2 Section2 SSC specific.

10.2.1

Introduction .
Objectives... eee ec cece ee ceeeeceeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeencaceceeeeereneees 41
SCOPC Losec eeeececceceeesesceseeseseeseesessesecseceeeecaeeseeeeeeeaeeseeseeeeeeeeeeees 41
Assumptions

Change Management.

CNV) I 42
TST... cece eee cec eee ee cece eeceeeeeecececeeeeecececeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeseeeeeeees 43
Business continuity process at Pathway..............:.:::ccceeeeee 43

Strategy explanation

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
10.2.2 Pre-disaster ACtiONS............... cece eee ececeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeees 45
10.2.3 SSC Contact numbers. 2.0... eee eee eeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeee! 45
10.2.4 Action Checklist... cece eceeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeereeeeteeeeeneeeetees 46
10.2.5 External Contacts............ccccccceesesececeeeeseseseseeeeseseseseseeaeaceceeeees 51

10.2.6 Vital Records
10.2.7 Critical Equipmen
10.2.8 SSC Back up Facilities at FELO1.

11. AppendixD SSC PC Build Details... cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 57
11.1 SSC workstation build CL... ee eee eee eeeeeeeee cece eeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeees 57
11.1.1 Build process... cece cece eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeees 57
11.1.2 Initial products.
11.1.3 Additional products / customisation over PIT build................... 58
11.1.4 “At desk” action for SSC workstation build... 62

1 Introduction

This manual provides a high-level description of the activities of the Support
Services Unit within Pathway Customer Service.

2 Scope

This manual primarily provides a description of the operations of the CS
Support Services Unit. However, to put these operations in context, it also
describes some of the activities of other units where they are relevant. This is
particularly the case in the software release management area. There are
other manuals that describe operations within the other areas of Pathway
Customer Service.

Where necessary, in addition to this manual, there are process documents,
lower-level procedures and work instructions that describe some of the
operations in more detail.

Appendix A, at the end of the manual, contains diagrams of some of the
processes.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

3 Overview

The purpose of the CS Support Services Unit is to support Pathway Customer
Service in the day-to-day delivery of the Pathway solution. The prime
operational units are:

e System Support Centre (SSC)
Responsible for all support activities, and, in particular, it provides third line
support for all applications in the Pathway estate

« Operational Test Team (OTT)
Tests all software fixes and, where applicable, changes to reference data to
ensure there is no risk to the live service

e Release Management (RM)
Responsible for the release of software changes to the live estate

4 System Support Centre

This section of the manual describes the operations and responsibilities of
the System Support Centre (SSC).

4.1 Overview

The principles by which the SSC operates are documented in End-to-End
Support Process Operational Level Agreement (CS/FSP/006) which defines
the responsibilities of the four levels of support towards each other. This
document is effectively a service level agreement between the support units,
outlining specific tasks and measures of success.

The aim of the SSC is to provide a support capability to Pathway that
resolves technical problems in the minimum time and with the minimum
amount of disruption to the service. The SSC aims to provide a centre of
technical expertise for Customer Service, providing technical advice,
guidance, and expertise relating to all parts of the Pathway system.

More specifically the SSC has responsibilities to:
e First and second line support
e Fourth line support

4.1.1 SSC responsibilities to first and second line support

The responsibilities of the SSC to first and second line support, that is the
Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) and the System Management Centre (SMC)
respectively, are to:

1. Receive incidents passed from the HSH and SMC

2. Ensure that any incidents received are maintained on the call
management system. When updates are made to the calls that are
relevant to the HSH or SMC, the SSC ensures that these updates reach
the Powerhelp system

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

3. Ensure that the reported incident is resolved correctly and the solution is
recorded on the PinICL system

4. Ensure that the incident and solution are passed back to the HSH and
SMC call management system. The solution includes a full explanation for
the problem and the action taken to resolve it

5. Ensure that the incident is resolved within the total time allowed by the
contract between the customer and Pathway

6. Ensure that the HSH and SMC are made aware of the evidence
requirements for any form of incident and that this documentation is fully
maintained

7. Create and maintain a register of known deficiencies within the Pathway
system and the solution to these problems, where known

8. Allow the HSH and SMC access to this register so that they can fulfil their
function of filtering out known errors

9. Ensure that any solutions or workarounds they pass to the SMC have
been tested and have been correctly authorised via the software release
management process

10.Ensure that the HSH and SMC are supplied with documentation relating to
new releases of software in sufficient time to enable their staff to become
familiar with the product prior to its release

11.Ensure that, for any incident which has been solved and passed back to
the Powerhelp system, the customer has been contacted and made aware
of the call closure

12.Hold workshops and skills transfer sessions relating to technical aspects
of the Pathway system and diagnostic techniques

13. Ensure that the following figures are available to the HSH and SMC on
demand:

(a) Number of calls by priority currently outstanding with the SSC

(b) Number of calls where resolution has been deferred to the next
release

(c) Number of calls by age currently outstanding with the SSC or fourth
line support unit
4.1.2 SSC responsibilities to fourth line support
The responsibilities of the SSC to fourth line support are to:
1. Log all calls on a call management system

2. Filter out all calls for which the problem is already known to the support
community and for which a solution is already known or has been
generated. This includes problems for which the SSC knows a resolution
but has not yet incorporated the resolution into the known error log

3. Retain duplicate incidents in the PinICL systems and ensure that when the
resolved incident is received by the SSC the duplicated calls are closed.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Duplicate incidents are repetitions of an incident that has already been
passed to fourth line support.

4. Ensure that the correct evidence for any problem is collected prior to the
incident being passed to fourth line support for investigation.

5. Ensure that any incident that requires investigation by fourth line support
is assigned to the correct PinICL team depending upon the specific
product in which the incident has occurred

6. Ensure that any updates made to incidents passed to the SSC are sent to
the fourth line support units

7. Ensure that any calls passed to fourth line support units are passed in a
timely manner. The timing varies depending on the priority of a call

8. Ensure that the priority of any incident is assessed and recorded correctly
9. Filter out all calls for which the problem is not one of the following:

(a) Software error

(b) Documentation error

10.Ensure that for any incident passed to fourth line support the exact area of
the problem has been identified and, wherever possible, a workaround
has already been produced

11.Ensure that, for any code error, a probable solution is indicated prior to
passing the incident to fourth line support and, wherever possible, the
proposed solution has undergone limited testing

12. Accept full responsibility for the product, including fourth line support, and
for the production of any code required to resolve incidents, for areas of
the Pathway system where the product has matured, that is, no further
releases of the product are expected

13.Create and maintain a register of known deficiencies of the Pathway
system and the solution to these problems, where known, and allow
access to this register to fourth line units so that they can enter details of
solutions created within their area

4.2 Applications support

Appendix A in this manual contains process diagrams showing the roles of
the support units

4.2.1 Role of first line support

The HSH run by OSD, provides first line support to Horizon system users.
The helpdesk has its own procedures, Horizon System Helpdesk Incident
Procedures (DSP/PRO/HH/010). The HSH uses Powerhelp, an application
supplied by Astea Inc, as its helpdesk system.

When the HSH receives a service call, its first task is to determine whether or
not the call relates to a hardware or software problem. For hardware
problems, it contacts OSD to schedule engineers and, if necessary, spare
parts to resolve the problem. Hardware and networking issues should be

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

4.2.2

resolved through operational resilience or change control processes and
should not be passed through to the SSC.

The HSH also does not pass requests for advice and guidance to the SSC
that it can provide directly to the customer.

However, if it cannot resolve a call quickly, or if there is a possibility of a
software problem, the Helpdesk transfers the call to the second line support
team for further investigation.

Role of second line support

The System Management Centre (SMC) is also run by OSD and provides
second line support to Horizon system users. On receipt of a call from the
HSH, the SMC's first task is to determine whether or not the service call is a
software code problem.

The SMC also uses Powerhelp as its helpdesk system. The system has an
Open Teleservice Interface (OTI) link to the SSC's call management system.

The HSH will have prioritised the call according to the criticality of the fault as
follows:

Priority Meaning Notes
A Business stopped A post office that is wholly inoperative and
unable to process any business
B Business restricted A post office that is restricted in its ability to
transact business, for example, one counter
inoperative
Cc Non-critical A post office that is working normally, but with a

known incapacity, for example, an interim
solution has been provided

D Internal An internal HSH/SMC problem, for example, a
helpdesk PC or a telephone not working

SMC carry out any appropriate pre-authorised activities for resilience and
recovery purposes as defined in their procedures. Both HSH and SMC have
access to KELs (Known Error Logs) which contain authorised workarounds
and repetitive manual action that they can implement.

If the service request call indicates a software problem which has been seen
before, and for which a workaround is already available, the SMC follows its
own internal procedures to ensure that the workaround is passed to the
customer.

If the service request call indicates a software problem which has been seen
before, and for which a workaround is not available, the SMC links the current
call to the first call and does not pass the call to the SSC. This ensures that
the SSC does not receive duplicate calls for the same problem.

If the service call indicates a software problem that has not been seen before,
the SMC follows its own internal procedures to pass the call to the SSC,
providing information about the problem and Pathway's exposure, that is, the

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

number of calls received and the potential number of counters that are
affected. They also provide details about the software version installed on the
platform.

4.2.3 Role of third line support

The System Support Centre (SSC) within Pathway Customer Service
provides third line support for most applications.

The SSC uses PinlCL as its call management system and diagnostic
database. Calls from second line support are transferred from Powerhelp to
PinICL via an OTI link, and updates to the PinICL calls are transferred back
to second line support using the same mechanism.

When the SSC receives a call from second line support, second line support
has already assessed the call as a software problem and flagged it with the
appropriate priority. The SSC handles the call as follows:

1. The SSC checks details of known problems on the intranet site to
determine whether or not the problem is similar or identical to a problem
already known.

2. If the problem is known, the SSC carries out any pre-authorised actions
that are available to it, for example, workarounds in the KEL

3. If the problem is not known, the SSC checks the diagnostic evidence and,
if necessary, obtains further evidence from the live system to determine
the nature of the fault.

The SSC also uses its reference kit to recreate the symptoms reported by
the customer and may then be able to obtain diagnostic data in a
controlled fashion

4. If the problem is identified as a code fault, the SSC determines the area of
code that has failed and, if possible, identifies a solution to the problem for
fourth line support to implement. If possible, it tests the proposed solution
before passing the call to fourth line support

5. If the problem is urgent, that is, a workaround has not been found, the
SSC escalates the problem to fourth line support via PinICL. Note that any
urgent corrective action is a one-off implementation of the solution to the
problem.

If the problem is not urgent, for example, a workaround has been
implemented, the customer is satisfied and the support call has been
cleared, the SSC still passes the problem to fourth line support via PinICL
to generate a permanent fix. However, the SSC Manager may lower the
priority of the PinICL to reflect the lack of urgency of the problem

6. If the problem is not identified as a code fault, the SSC identifies the exact
nature of the fault and isolates the system that caused the symptoms. This
may happen, for example, when the code is operating within specification
but the customer reports symptoms which were not expected

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

7. Once the SSC has passed the call to fourth line support, it remains
responsible for ensuring that the call is dealt with in a timely manner and
for informing the SMC and HSH of any updates to the call

8. The SSC identifies the software that needs to be released permanently to
the live environment as the long-term solution to the problem and notifies
the CSRM accordingly

Note. Closing calls on PinICL and Powerhelp

e The SSC closes a call on PiniICL when a resolution has been identified for
the call and the details passed to the SMC, for example, a definition of the
release that will contain the fix, as detailed in the release management
process

e The SMC and HSH use PowerHelp and close a call when the fix has been
distributed to the relevant equipment. This may be fairly simple if it is on
the central servers, but it may involve considerable work if it requires a
code release to all post office counters

4.2.4 Role of fourth line support

The fourth line support unit receives the request and does one of the
following:

e Returns with a recommendation for action that the SSC can carry out

e Returns with a workaround that the SSC can progress as if it had
generated it

e Rejects the request, for example, on the grounds that the problem will be
resolved in a system software release that is due imminently

e Identifies a fix but does not produce it until authorised by the Release
Management Forum

Where necessary, internal Pathway fourth line support also provides the
interface with PinICL for external fourth line support units and updates the
PinlCL with progress reports.

A number of units provide fourth line support to the Pathway system as
described in the following sections.

4.2.4.1 Pathway Development and A&TC

These development teams use the PinlICL system to manage calls. Their
process is essentially the same as the SSC with the exception that any
development required to resolve a problem goes through the release
management process.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

The SSC and the development team discuss the problem and assign the
PinICL call to either a specific development team, if the product has been
identified, or to the general development team, if not.

If the development team requires additional information, it redirects the call
back to the SSC which returns the call to the development team once they
have obtained the required additional information.

If a patch is produced to resolve the call, this is handled through the release
management process.

4.2.1.2 I Escher

Escher also uses the PinlICL system. The process for routing a call to Escher
is via the Pathway development team and therefore the process is as
described above.

4.2.1.3 OSD

Generally where OSD acts as fourth line support, it also has responsibility for
first, second and third line support - therefore, the procedures involved are
entirely OSD internal procedures. In those instances where SSC, not OSD,
provides third line support the procedures as defined in 4.2.4.1 will be
followed.

4.2.1.4 Eicon

0 _....1 Note that this telephone diverts outside normal office hours
icon’s Canadian call centre. 12 SSC staff are registered with Eicon as
having the authority to raise calls, and 2 SSC staff members have undergone
training with Eicon in diagnostic requirements.

Escalation to Eicon management for any issues is via the SSC manager and
the Eicon Service manager. As of 30/12/1999 this was Dan Dixon,

The Eicon contract is held in FELO1 by the Finance Director

4.3 Operational change

The SSC has access to the live system which can be used to correct data on
the system when this has been corrupted in some way. The procedure for
doing this is as follows:

The originator of the change:

1. Completes an Operational Correction Request (OCR) form for every
change to data on the live system.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 67

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

The originator may be anyone within ICL Pathway, but is normally the
Duty Manager, or a Problem Manager or Business Support Manager when
an incident or problem has been caused by an error in the data. It can
also be completed by an SSC staff member who detects that the data in
the system has become corrupted in the course of diagnosing a fault

2. Emails the OCR form to an authoriser, electronically signing it where
possible, and where this is not possible, telephoning the authoriser to
confirm that they are sending an OCR.

The authoriser must be one of the following:
e Duty Manager
e Business Support Manager
e CS Operations Manager
e SSC Manager
e Release Manager
The authoriser:

1. Authorises the change, or reports back to the originator why they are not
authorising the change

2. Forwards the OCR form to the SSC electronically with an encrypted
electronic signature file

The SSC staff member who is to perform the change:
3. Checks the electronic signature of the authoriser

4. Stores the OCR form and the signature file in the received ocRs folder
on the SSC server

5. Wherever possible, produces a script to make the data change and tests
the script on the SSC reference rig prior to running it on the live system

6. Completes the relevant sections on the OCR form to confirm whether they
have produced and tested a script or not

7. Prior to making the change on the live system, documents the state of the
affected part of the system and completes the regression path details on
the OCR form.

Note. If no regression path is possible, this must be stated on the OCR
form

8. Makes the change on the live system.

At least two people must be present when making changes to the live
system. Normally these are SSC staff, but can be one SSC staff member
and one person from the fourth line support unit responsible for the area
in which the data change will take place, or one SSC staff member and
one OSD staff member

9. On completing the data change, documents the state of the affected part
of the system and mails an electronically signed copy of the OCR form to
the second person who was present while making the change

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 67

FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

4.4

10. The second person also electronically signs the form and emails it to
either the SSC Manager or the SSC web site controller

11.Updates the PinICL and reports back to the originator to confirm that the
change has been completed

The SSC Manager or SSC web site controller:
12.Checks the electronic signatures
13.Files the OCR in the completed OCR folder on the SSC server

SSC reference kit

4.4.1 Overview

The SSC reference kit consists of two rigs at BRAO1. One is the reference rig
for the live system and the other is the reference rig for the next release of
software.

OSD maintains both rigs. The live reference rig is operated and managed by
OSD. The second rig is operated and managed by SSC staff.

The general requirement is for the SSC to have reference kit that mirrors as
closely as possible the equipment in use at any post office. The function of
this kit is to duplicate problems reported by customers in a controlled fashion.
The SSC also uses the reference kit to provide a link to live system diagnosis
and, where authorised, data change.

4.4.2 Updating the hardware asset register

The SSC maintains a hardware asset register for all of Pathway CS. The
following section describes the procedure to add to and remove hardware
from the asset register. Note that this procedure includes all CS IT kit not just
reference kit.

4.4.2.1 Adding new hardware

Whenever hardware is added within Pathway CS at Bracknell the asset
register is updated. The CS staff member sends an email to the SSC
Manager in the following format:

Asset Serial ICL serial number

Asset Manufact Serial Manufacturer's serial number (non-ICL)
Asset Product For example, Compaq Deskpro

Asset Owner For example, Rig xxx

Asset Owner Building BRAO1

Asset Owner Location For example, Rig Room

Asset Owner Charge Code For example, UPA66

Asset Comments For example, Correspondence Server C
Asset hw or sw HW or SW

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 67
FU.

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Owning Asset For example, Rig name

Value at Purchase If known

Date of purchase Formatted as dd/mm/yy

Depreciation Years Always 3

Current Value Leave blank

4.4.2.2 Removing hardware

4.5

Whenever hardware is removed from Pathway CS at BRAO1, the asset
register is updated. The CS staff member sends an email to the SSC
Manager in the following format:

Asset Serial ICL serial number
Asset Manufact Serial Manufacturer's serial number (non-ICL)
Asset Comments Where to

Diagnostic information

The SSC, as third line support for products in the Pathway system, has
responsibility for ensuring that first and second line support units are
provided with sufficient information to enable them to diagnose known
problems correctly and to provide advice and guidance to the customers.

In this way, support requests from customers that are passed to the SSC
should be restricted to either complex end-to-end process problems that
require in-depth analysis of all of the systems involved or new software faults.

4.5.1 Maintaining the Known Error Log on the SSC intranet site

The SSC generates and maintains a Known Error Log (KEL) system that uses
searchable documents in HTML format. The mechanism for searching is a
query entry in an intranet site. The KEL system is available to first, second,
third and fourth line support units as well as SSC staff.

4.5.2 Transferring knowledge between support units

4.6

The SSC intranet site has KEL search facilities and other useful diagnostic
data, documents and tools.

SSC and SMC staff raise KELs based on customer-observed symptoms.
KELs are further maintained once the fault has been resolved.

Diagnostic tools

4.6.1 Overview

The SSC develops and maintains tools that can assist in the diagnostic
process. The SSC diagnosticians develop the tools themselves; the individual
authors are responsible for maintaining these developments.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 67

FUJ00232449
IJ00232449
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Development is performed on an ad hoc basis whenever there is a
requirement to generate a tool to assist in the diagnosis of faults.

All diagnostic tools are registered on the SSC intranet site.

The tools themselves are made available to all members of the SSC and,
where they are able to assist other support units within Pathway, they are
made accessible together with any documentation about their use.

4.6.2 Developing diagnostic tools

Before developing a diagnostic tool, establish whether or not the required tool
has already been produced by reference to the diagnostic tools database on
the SSC intranet site. This database contains details of known diagnostic
tools developed in the SSC and by other support units.

1. If a suitable tool already exists, it should be used

2. Ifa suitable tool does not already exist, the SSC staff member:
(a) Defines the requirement for the tool to the SSC Manager
(b) Waits for authorisation before proceeding

3. If the diagnostician has sufficient development skills to develop the tool
him or herself, the SSC Manager schedules the development work
required

4. If the diagnostician does not have sufficient development skills to develop
the tool, the SSC Manager:

(a) If these skills are available within the SSC, identifies the resource
required to develop the tool

(b) If necessary, goes outside the SSC to obtain the development
resource

5. Log the fact that the tool is being developed in the diagnostic tools
database on the SSC intranet site and forward this information to all of the
relevant units which may have use of this tool

6. Maintain a copy of the tool in the diagnostic database on the SSC intranet
site

4.7 SSC intranet site

This site was created by and is maintained by SSC staff, although it provides
a resource for other support staff within the Pathway estate.

The following sections describe the key features of the site. As the contents
of the site are under constant review, the following details may change.

4.7.1 Known Error Logs (KELs)

The intranet site holds known error details in Microsoft Word format, the
contents of which may be searched for, in full text form. Documents are
created to a defined template wherever possible. An application has been
generated which limits the properties of the document to a subset of possible

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

4.7.2

values, for clarity and ease of search. This application is made available to all
support units.

The process for creating KEL entries outside of the SSC has not yet been
formulated, but it is expected that no KEL will be allowed onto the system
before it has been authorised by SSC staff.

Change proposals

The intranet site holds copies of each Change Proposal (CP) in a searchable
form as Microsoft Word documents. These documents are not definitive. As
copies of the CPs are taken before they reach the Pathway Change Control
Board the status of any CP is indeterminate - it may, or may not, have been
approved.

Maintaining the CPs in this form allows diagnosticians to see that someone
has looked at an activity in an area of the Pathway operations regardless of
whether or not that activity was actually carried out.

4.7.3 Release management
The Release Management database is held on the same server as the
Intranet site. This database is used to control the flow of fixes through the
Operational Testing processes and through release to the live environment.
The intranet site provides a controlled interface to this database, allowing
searches to be made by:

e Date

For example, show all fixes applied to the live environment since date xxxx
e = PinICL

For example, show the state of a PinICL in the release process (delivered, due to
be tested, due to be released to live)

47.4

Similar searches can be made on a Release note as described for a PinICL.

Operational Change/Corrections

The intranet site holds copies of both SSC Operational Correction Requests
and OSD Operation Change Requests. The intention being to provide a
mechanism in which both urgent and planned changes at the operational
level can be viewed quickly.

OSD have control over the OSD change requests, and the SSC intranet site
provides a repository and search mechanism only. For SSC Correction
requests, inserting the data into the intranet server is mandated by the
process — Appendix B of this document.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 67
FU.

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
4.7.5 Work Instructions

4.7.6

48

There is a requirement for Work Instructions which may augment, or
temporarily replace documented procedures. These are logged and
maintained on the SSC Intranet site. There is a password protection
mechanism, so that only the SSC manager, or nominated deputy, can create
new, or amend existing Work Instructions. All staff are allowed to search the
work instructions

Other facilities
The intranet site also contains smaller sections that provide:
1. Links to commonly used web sites

2. A bulletin board for SSC staff to add points of interest regarding the
operation of the live system

3. Access to commonly used SQL queries and other items of code
4. Access to various documents relating to the live system

Access to the live system

All diagnostic staff in the SSC (product specialists and systems specialists)
have access to the live system via PCs (see Appendix D for build details) that
are connected to a private LAN in BRAO1. Patch panels enable staff to use
these PCs to access the test rigs in BRAO1.

The build script for these PCs was written by OSD, but is held in the SSC.
The PC build was performed in accordance with the Access Control Policy.

Access from the PCs to the live system to the live system is controlled by
SecurelD, uses firewalls, and an encrypted link, and conforms to the Access
Control Policy.

The SSC access to the system is for two purposes:

e Assist in diagnosis of problems on the live system

e Correct data which has become corrupted

49

In the second case, SSC staff may only correct data in response to an
authorised Operational Correction Request and only then when there are two
or more people present

Additional technical support to Pathway CS

In addition to the normal support activities, the SSC provides other technical
resources to Pathway CS. It is the only unit with sufficient access to the live
systems to be able, for example, to analyse:

e Riposte message store
e Counter event logs

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 67

FUJ00232449
IJ00232449
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

« Central system NT event logs
Consequently, the SSC runs daily checks for:

e Post offices that have not communicated with the central systems for 24
hours

e Any NT events that indicate that TIP processing has failed or that
transactions have not been harvested

It is also able to respond to other specific requests such as:
e Number of reboots performed by each counter in the estate

e Analysing the message store to investigate a suspected breach of security
at a counter or one of the central systems

CS units requiring such information contact the SSC Manager or the
appropriate diagnostician who deals with the request as promptly as possible.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

5 Operational Test Team (OTT)

The Operational Test Team (OTT) within Pathway CS is responsible for
testing fixes prior to their application to the live environment to ensure that
they work and do not adversely affect the environment.

5.1 Overview
To test a software fix, the Operational Test Team carries out the following
activities:

e Scheduling the testing

e Controlling the testing

e Recording rig problems

e Controlling OTT documents

e Recording the fix level of a rig
The following sections describe the process.

5.2 Scheduling testing
The main test scheduling task is carried out using the Release Management
Data Base in conjunction with Release Management.
The OTT team does the following:
1. Populates the OTT testing cycle on the RMDB and allocate resource.
2. Ensures that sufficient documentation is available for the testing purposes
3. Receives Release Note from RM
4. Liaises with OSD to get the fix applied to the test rig
5. Files the documentation when testing is complete.

If the fix is rejected during testing due to a fault, OTT send it back to the
relevant unit for correction..

If multiple software fixes are included on one Release Note, one may fail
while the others are successful. In this case, if the fixes are dependent on
each other the whole release is rejected, or, if the fixes are independent
the Release Note may continue and the failed element is re-scheduled to
join a later release of fixes.

6. Updates the release database to show the fix has been tested
successfully (or rejected (with a reason))

7. OTT sends the software fix release note back to Release Management.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

5.3 Controlling testing

This section describes how the OTT control testing.

When fixes are fast tracked, some of the preparation, for example,
documentation, may have been delayed until after the release has been
distributed. Therefore, some of these activities are revisited to complete the
full schedule of preparation and testing as identified on the software fix
release note.

1. Testers use copies of the following information, where relevant :
« Release note
« Relevant PinICLs
« Handover note

2. When a test has been scheduled, the testers carry out the following
actions:

a) Produce the test script
b) Undertake any other preparation necessary for the test

c) Carry out the test to confirm that the problem occurs as expected
) The fix is applied to the test rig (by OSD)
e) Test after the fix has been applied

f) Test after the fix has been regressed

(
(
(
(d
(
(
(

g) Ifthe fix passes the test, pass the relevant documents and the
updated test script to the OTT Manager. If the fix fails the test, return
it to fourth line support for redevelopment.

5.4 Recording rig problems
Rig problems are recorded in log books. There is one log for each of the rigs
used by OTT. The log book is kept by the counters belonging to the rig.

1. Whenever a problem is found on a rig, OTT makes an entry in the
appropriate log book. The kind of incidents that are logged are:

e Hardware faults on any of the kit
e Errors reported by any of the kit
* Communications faults
e A fix applied to all hardware except counters
e A fix removed from all hardware except counters
e Anything for which a call is logged with HSH or SMC
2. The entry in the log book includes the following information:
e Date of the incident.
¢ Details of the incident
© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 67

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

« Call number - if the incident is reported to HSH or SMC

e Status of the incident with HSH or SMC. That is, Open, Closed, with
HSH or SMC

3. When the incident is resolved, OTT updates the log with:
¢ Closure information

¢ Date of closure

5.5 Controlling OTT documents

This section describes how OTT maintain documents and notes.
OTT maintains all documents on the machine Sscdiag4 in folder oTTShare.

5.5.1 Creating a new OTT document

To create a new OTT document, the OTT staff member carries out the
following steps:

1. Allocates a new number for the document from the appropriate index file

2. Updates the index file to show the newly allocated number and prints a
copy of it

3. Creates the new document using the appropriate template
4. Informs other team members that they have created a new document

5.5.2. Updating an existing OTT document

To update an existing document, the OTT staff member carries out the
following steps:

1. Locates the document by referring to the appropriate index file
2. Updates the document
3. Informs other team members that they have changed the document

5.6 Recording the fix level of the test rig
A white board documents the fix level of all the counters attached to the OTT
rig.
OTT updates the white board whenever:

e A fix is applied or removed from a counter

e Acounter is rebuilt or replaced

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

6 Release Management

This section describes the operations performed by Customer Service
Release Management team. The CS Release Manager (CSRM) is
responsible for authorising changes to the live Horizon environment.

The following procedures are described:

« Deciding whether a software fix should be developed
e Defining the release plan and time scales

e Managing the delivery of supporting services

« Creating the software fix

e Re-raising a release note

e Authorising the software fix

« Completing the release process

Appendix A contains a block diagram of the process.

6.1.1 Deciding whether a software fix should be developed

This section describes how ICL Pathway CS decide if a fix should be
implemented for a problem. See Appendix A.4 process diagram.

1. ICL Pathway CS holds a Release Management Forum weekly to decide
what fixes should be created and to assess the impact of any associated
risk. Representatives of each unit involved in the software release process
attend the RMF meeting as follows:

e System Support Centre

e ICL Pathway Development
e Operational Test Team

e Configuration Management
« Customer Service

e ICL Outsourcing

e Other units as required

The SSC represents the customer in the RMF in terms of the calls made
to the helpdesks. The Service Managers know of other problems that are
significant to the customer, through parallel escalation processes. The

Service Managers feed their knowledge into the RMF through the CSRM

2. The CSRM sends a list of all outstanding open calls to each member in
advance of the RMF meeting, allowing the attendees to identify their
requirements.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

The calls are cleared calls, that is, have a corrective action in place and
are awaiting closure, either because the decision has not been made
whether to create a fix, or the decision has been made to create a fix and
it has not been completed

3. Each attendee brings with them information about the dependencies,
priorities, risks, issues, alternative options and time scales for the open
PinlCLs. It may not be possible to estimate how long certain activities will
take until the priorities have been agreed, therefore, some information
may not be available until after the RMF meeting

4. The open calls are discussed, with the information provided by the
members. For example, details of any workaround and business impact,
until the situation is understood. Then the RMF decides whether a release
is required

5. If SSC consider a problem too urgent to wait for the weekly RMF meeting,
it requests the CSRM to fast track the fix.

The CSRM assesses the situation and, based on the priorities of each
unit, the risk of releasing the fix, the alternative options, any dependencies
between fixes and any other issues, decides either the problem can wait
until the weekly RMF meeting or agrees to a fast track solution.

If the fix is fast tracked, the CSRM holds a virtual forum by taking the
release request to each RMF member (in person or by phone, fax or
PinICL) for input and sign off. The activities in the high level plan are
reduced to a minimum before the release and the rest of the activities, for
example, documentation, are carried out after the release has been made.

In an emergency, the following people can authorise a fix to be produced
without contacting the CS Release Manager:

« SSC Manager
« CS Operations Manager
e Problem Manager

If this happens, the person authorising the fix ensures that the CS
Release Manager is informed so that the release process can incorporate
the fix.

Where an emergency fix has been applied to get systems up and running,
release management processes may be applied retrospectively

6. If the RMF decides not to develop and release a fix, one of the following
actions takes place:

(a)The RMF decides that a live problem can wait until the next major
software release. In this case, the CSRM clones the call on the new
release and returns the call on PinICL to EDSC.

(b) If the original is not a live fault it is upversioned and returned to Gen
Dev.

(c) The RMF identifies the call as not being a problem at all, that is, the
perceived shortfall is the way the system was designed to work. RMF

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

returns the call to the originator so they can raise a change request for
an enhancement to the system

(d) If rejection is considered to have significant impact to the customer,
the CSRM escalates the problem to the Customer Satisfaction
Manager before authorising closure of the call

Note: Fourth line support PinlCLs include problems that are not in the current
live environment. These are not relevant to the release management process
and are managed by development. However, if a fourth line support PinICL
identifies a problem in the current release, the RMF decides whether or not to
postpone the fix.

Defining the release plan and time scales

Once the decision has been made to create a fix; the following issues may
need to be taken into account.

1. Any dependencies between calls

2. Any situations where a new release will run in parallel to an old release
before the old release is upgraded.

3. The priority of each fix according the different needs of each CS unit.

4. CSRM updates the report for POCL, for which they are currently
responsible, with the expected completion date to resolve the call

5. For most releases, the delivery date is not significant. The release is
simply distributed at the earliest convenient time. For releases that have
a significant date line, the following steps are taken:

e Each unit involved in the release provides details of the time scales in
which they can complete the required work

e All parties involved agree to a high-level plan for each release

The CSRM is responsible for determining the availability of the
Operational Test Rig. and co-ordinating the allocation of users to it.

6. The CSRM:
(a) Creates a software fix release note

(b) Captures all the information and raises a release PinICL for each
release.

The Release PinlCL references all the PinICL calls (or HSH / SMC
calls) that it covers and each original PinICL call is updated with the
new Release PinICL number. Progress queries on the original
PinlCL calls are found by reference to the software fix release note
attached to the new Release PinICL

(c) Attaches the release note to the PinICL and sends it to PIT

7. The manager for each unit updates the release PinICL with details of their
progress

8. The CSRM monitors the progress of the software fix release note by
accessing the release PinlICL and manages any deviations from the high-

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

level plan to ensure that all units are aware of the delay and the impact
can be minimised. The CSRM does this by negotiation with the different
units in the release process both in and outside of the RMF.

If necessary, the CSRM escalates problems to Service Management
Notes:
1. The CSRM owns the plan
2. Arelease PinlCL is a different kind of PinICL to those used by SSC so
that it is not counted in problem statistics
Managing the delivery of supporting services
See Appendix A.5 process diagram

Other units may be involved in the release process who are not part of the
normal RMF, for example, training, helpdesks, documentation, bench-
marking, hardware installation. In most cases fixes will not affect these units,
but, if any of these units are involved, the CSRM co-ordinates their activities,
identifying any testing requirements and receiving notification from the units
when their preparation are complete, as follows:

e For HSH and SMC: notification of operational readiness

e For documentation: notification of completion of update, and the
documentation itself, so that CSRM can distribute it

e For hardware: notification of operational readiness.

e For user training: notification that the training material is ready, trials of
the material are scheduled on the Operational Test Rig, training is
delivered where necessary

Provided that all the supporting preparation is complete, CSRM sign off the
release note.

Note that the time taken for the distribution of the documentation has to be
taken into account in the delivery schedule of the release.

Most fixes do not normally affect any of these other units.

Creating the software fix

Fourth line support creates the fix and the Tivoli installation scripts, and unit
tests and documents the fix. Any fixes that fail testing must be recreated.

ICL Pathway development complete the release note with details, such as the
affected estate, and send it via PinlICL to Configuration Management. If
external fourth line support are involved, ICL Pathway development manage
them and complete the release note on their behalf.

Re-raising a release note

A software fix could fail in OTT or it could be applied in the wrong way. When
a failed fix is investigated and the content of the release is found to be at
fault, then one or more new work-packages are developed. CSRM withdraw

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

the original software fix release note and raise a new one to cover the new
work-package(s).

Information about the new work-packages is typed into the existing PinICL as
a new progress commentary. The associated PinICL record in the Release
Management database is amended by the adding a suffix letter, starting with
‘a’ to the record name. For example the record name PC0001589a indicates
that the initial fix associated with PinICL PC0001589a has failed and that a
new one needs to be delivered.

6.1.6 Authorising the software fix
The CSRM authorises the software fix release, having:

1. Ensured that all testing and preparation is complete
2. All sign offs have been attained.

6.1.7 Completing the release process

1. Either OSD/SMC or OSD Service Management distributes software. After
the software has been distributed, CSRM receive notification of the
success or otherwise of the release:

e If OSD/SMC or OSD Service Management confirm the successful
release of the software, CSRM receive the release PinICL from CM. If
the delivery was only to the pilot estate, which may be the case for
high risk fixes, CSRM authorise the full delivery to go ahead

e If the distributing unit report problems with the distributed software,
CSRM may authorise the regression of the release. (Regression
means withdrawing the software fix that had been installed)

2. Provided that the release is successful, CSRM sign off the release note
as complete. CSRM then close the release PinlCL.

6.1.8 Work Instructions

A set of work instructions complement the processes above. They are held on
the Customer Service V drive with an index at v:ReleaseMgt\CSRM Working
Documents\DocPlan_Index_1

7 Business continuity

The Pathway CS Support Services Manager is responsible for ensuring that a
business recovery plan is in place for the SSC. See Appendix C for details.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

8 Appendix A Process diagrams

A.1_ First and second line support

OSD Responsibility Incident report
(OSD Procedures used) from Customer

+

1* Line Support -
Horizon System
Helpdesk (HSH)

Can

advice or

guidance be
given

Provide advice
and guidance

Is
problem H/W
or SW

Contact ICL
‘System Service

2nd Line Support -
‘System
Maintenance
Centre (SMC)
Helpdesk

Verify
that problem is
siw

Is
solution
available

No

Provide Link call to 1st
solution or call so that
workaround to duplicate calls
Customer do not reach

ssc

System Support Centre

Responsibility Sra Line Support
- System Support
(SSC Procedures used) Centre (SSC)

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

A.2_ Third and fourth line support

Incident report
from SMC (2”
Line)

jp

Determine likely
area of fault

v

Allocate call to
member of
centre for
analysis

3" Line Support -
System Support Centre
Responsibility

(SSC Procedures used)

Is the
fault a known
problem

Provide solution
to Customer

Diagnose cause
from Live System
or Reference Kit

Is the
fault a code
bug

No

Determine the
location the code

Identify nature of
fault and isolate
sub-system
causing fault

fault and a
possible solution.
Pass to 4" Line
‘Support

4th Line Support -
Various units provide 4"
Line Support

4" Line Support -
Pathway development, or
OSD, or

Escher, or

HPS, or

Enterprise systems, or
EMC

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 31 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

A.3 Support and release management process

Problems in
live
environment

—+$—

Manage operations andI

support issues * ir
[OSD Ops /SSC] SSC involved

v

Decide whether a

software fix shouldbe I * §SC involved

developed
[Forum]

Vv

Define the release
plan and timescales

* SSC involved

[Forum]
Create the Manage supporting
software fix activities

[Development] [CS Rel Mgr]

Vv

Operationally test Configuration manage
the change th °

(esorriosp [<> etare
Ops]

Authorise the

software fix <
[CS Rel Mgr]

Vv

Distribute software
[SMC/ IOSD Ops]

a

Changed live
environment

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of 67
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
Date: 07/11/00

A.4_ Deciding whether a software fix should be developed

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 33 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 1.0
Date: 07/11/00

A.5 Managing the delivery of supporting services

Notification of
service
requirements

a7

Prepare for release:
helpdesks, documentn,
hw instalin, training

<>

Schedule access
to op test rig as
required [OTT]

y

Confirm completion
of preparation to
CSRM [various]

Y

Sign off rel note when
all supporting
preparation is complete

[SRM]

y

Await
authorisation

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 34 of 67
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
Date: 07/11/00

9 Appendix B

Operational Correction Request form

The following page contains an example of an OCR form.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 35 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

ICL Pathway SSC _ Operational Correction
Request (OCR)
OCR Title
Raised by (Name) Location
Date/time raised Type of change (e.g.
SQL script)

System to be changed Required to be done by
(e.g. PAS/CMS) (date/time)
Associated PiniCL
number

Authorization Authorizer

signature (Print name)
Authorization Authorizer
date position
DATABA FILE
SE Change
Changes s
Table name File name
Parameter File location
description
Helpdesk Location of
screen backup
Purpose and details of the change

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Regression path

Work done by (SSC signature)

Work done by (Print Name)

Witnessed by (SSC or 4" line signature)

Witnessed by (SSC or 4" line Print name)

Completed at (Date and time)

Was change tested on reference rigs prior to application YES 7 NO
to live

‘System state before change

System state after change

‘Comments

‘See notes on the reverse of this document for the procedure for use.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

ICL Pathway SSC Operational Correction Request
Process

The SSC has access to the live system which can be used to correct data on the system when this has been corrupted in
some way.

The correction originator must —

i) Complete an OCR form for every correction to data on the live system.

This can be done by anyone within ICL Pathway, but is normally completed by the Duty Manager, other Problem
Manager or Business Support Manager when an incident or problem has been caused by an error in the data. It can
also be completed by SSC staff members who, in the course of diagnosing a fault detect that the data in the system
has become corrupted.

ii) Email the OCR form to an authorizer, electronically signing it where possible, and where this is not possible, telephoning the authorizer to

ii)

il)

ili)

iv)

0)

vi)

vil)

confirm that the OCR is being sent.

The correction authorizer must be one of the following -

* Duty Manager
+ Business Support Manager
* CS Operations Manager
* SSC Manager

+ Release Manager

The correction authorizer will

Authorize the correction, or report back to the originator to specify why the correction is not being authorized

Forward the OCR form to the SSC electronically with an encrypted electronic signature file.

The SSC staff member who is to perform the correction will

check the electronic signature of the authorizer before proceeding
Store the OCR form and the signature file in the “received OCRs"” section on the SSC server

Wherever possible, produce a script to make the data correction, and test this on the SSC reference rig prior to it running
on the live system. Sections in the OCR form confirm whether or not this has been done.

Prior to the correction being made, document the state of the affected part of the system on the OCR form.

Prior to the correction being done, complete on the OCR form the regression path details. If no regression path is
possible, then this must be stated

When corrections are to be made to the live system, at least two people must be in attendance. This will normally be SSC
staff, but can be one SSC staff member and one person from the 4" line support unit responsible for the relevant area in
which the data correction will take place, or one SSC staff member and one OSD staff member.

On completion of the data correction, document the state of the affected part of the system and mail an electronically
signed copy of the OCR form to the “witness”. The witness will then also electronically sign the form and email it to either
the SSC manager or the SSC web site controller.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
viii) Update the PinICL and report back to the originator to confirm that the correction has been completed.

The SSC manager or SSC web site controller will

ix) Check the electronic signatures
x) File the OCR in the “completed OCR" section on the SSC server.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 39 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10 AppendixC SSC Business Recovery Plan

10.1 Section 1 ICL Pathway Generic

10.1.1 Introduction

This appendix provides instructions for staff working for ICL Pathway SSC on
how to respond to a major incident affecting the building at BRA01,
personnel, assets or the business.

The SSC is responsible for the safekeeping and communication of the
business continuity plan within the team.

This plan has been developed to ensure that Pathway can recover from a
major disruption in a timely and efficient manner. However, the existence of
this plan alone does not guarantee a successful recovery. This plan must be
kept current as personnel, equipment, facilities, and business processes
change. The participants in the recovery process must know and understand
their roles in the execution of the plan. Physical and information
environments on which the plan depends must be monitored to ensure that
they are being maintained and are available for recovery if needed.
Furthermore, the plan must be tested regularly for validity.

10.1.2 Objectives
The primary objectives of the SSC business continuity plan are:

e to provide a tested vehicle which, when executed, will permit an efficient,
timely resumption of all critical business functions in order to continue
operations

e to contain, within acceptable levels, the financial and operational impacts
that Pathway could suffer following a disruption

e to minimise impacts upon customers
e To minimise the impact to the public and to the industry image of Pathway

10.1.3 Scope

This plan provides for recovery of the SSC operations within one working day
of a disruption.

The plan covers:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 40 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

staff relocation
communication with customer and suppliers
recovery of critical records

rebuild of critical equipment

10.1.4 Assumptions
The Plan has been developed with the following assumptions:

.

correct data files are backed up and stored remotely
office IT at FELO1 will be available within 2 hours of invocation

all necessary critical records have been stored offsite and can be
recovered within two hours after an incident has been notified to the SSC
Manager or his deputy

10.1.5 Change Management

This plan will be reviewed regularly

10.1.5.1

Change Checklist

Changes that may affect the plan are:

.

.

SSC personnel and related details
critical business functions

third Parties providing support to the SSC
software

hardware

critical records.

10.1.6 Audit

Audit of the plan will be conducted according to the ICL Pathway Audits policy
and annual plan.

10.1.7 Testing

The plan will be reviewed once per annum or when significant organisation
changes take place. Any resulting plan changes will be collated and
incorporated into this document and the plan re-issued.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 41 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10.1.8 Business continuity process at Pathway

This plan is derived from the document “Business Recovery Plan 704
Systems Support Centre”, which defines the Pathway business continuity
process (BCP). The following flowchart shows the flow of high level activities
that make up the BCP.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 42 of 67
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version:
Date:

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

CS/QMS/004

07/11/00

1) Assess & advise

meeting

2) Gather data

meeting

3) Decide and communicate

immediate strategy

meeting

4) Monitor actions

& gather data

meeting

BRT 1.0 Provide Specialist
advice to Crisis Mgt

Team Leader

Crisis Management

Team Feedback

CMT input

CMT input

BRT 2.0 Invocation of
5) Decide & communicaty Bus Recovery plans &

attendance at alternate locn,

medium term strategy

meeting

6) Monitor actions

& Gather Data

CMT input

BRT 3.0 Platform critical
tasks/processes within each Bus.
Recovery plan

meeting

7) Decide & communicate

long term

CMT Input

BRT 4.0 Implement restoration
of normal ops / clear backlog

strategy

8) Close out meeting

CMT Input

CMT Input

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 43 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10.2 Section 2 SSC specific

10.2.1 Strategy explanation

In the event of a disaster affecting BRAO1 which is so severe that the existing
arrangements for UPS, backup generators etc are ineffective, that there is a
total building loss, then some SSC staff will move to FELO1.

SSC access PCs, which are used to access the live system, have been built
and will be maintained in a secure area in FELO1.

A room in FELO1 which has been set up with the required firewall and
connections to the live service will be used, and SSC staff will connect their
own PCs into the available sockets.

OSD staff will be required during this process as a final check on the
connections to the live system through routers and firewalls.

SSC maintains all essential data on the SSC web site, off site copies of which
are held by both the senior technician and the SSC manager. These copies
will be used if necessary to recover the web site, which contains diagnostic
information, including Known Error Logs.

10.2.2 Pre-disaster Actions

1. Ensure that the essential documentation on the SSC web site is correctly
backed-up, and that off-site copies are maintained.

2. Ensure that essential equipment is lodged at the backup site (FELO1) ina
secure area

3. Ensure that the essential SSC staff who will travel to FELO1 in the event of
an emergency have access to the site, and to the secure area where the
kit is maintained.

4. Ensure that OSD have installed, and are maintaining the required
communications connections from the backup site to the live estate.

10.2.3 SSC Contact numbers

~~ Surname ~ I Forenames I Home phone No. — ~T Status
Anscomb I Jim ) i
Ballantyne John !
Carroll Patrick / Senior
I H Technician
Chambers I Anne I 7

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 44 of 67
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
Date: 07/11/00

SSC

Coordinator

Coleman I Richard

Critchley Graham I
/ ‘Foster ‘Bobo I
— Greenwood (Kath
Harvey Martin 7

Hawkes I Chris I

Longley Barbara I
Maxwell =I Gary]

O'Connor Aidan

Oladapo [ Lara

Parker Steve

Patel Rakesh

Peach Mik

GRO

Technician

“SSC
Manager

Simpkins “I
Simpson Garrett
Squires Steve i
_ Steed I Paul
Streeter Neil H
Wright Mark

10.2.4 Action Checklist

TL-BRT1.0.1 Team Leader or Deputy notified of an Incident [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: IComplete: Y/ N
by a member of CMT. Record name of caller.

been informed

[IL-BRT1.O.2 Ensure that the Crisis Controller or Deputy has IStart Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: ¥ /N

['L-BRTL.0.3 Ensure that all staff stay by a telephone on stand IStart Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
by until otherwise informed

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 45 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
TL-BRT1.0.4 mn receiving a call from the CMT, please ensure [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
that the following is ascertained before
jundertaking any unrequested actions:
TL-BRTL.O.5 1.Exactly what has happened ? Start Date/Time: _IEnd Date/Time: Complete: ¥ / N
{TL BRT1.0.6 {2.Who has been informed? Start Date/Time: _IEnd Date/Time: (Complete: Y / N
[PL-BRT1.0.7 What is the impact ? Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: _[Complete: ¥ /N
{[L-BRTLO.8 }4.What is the estimated time of inoperability ? start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y / N
{TL-BRTLO.9 §5.Do 1 need to go to the alternate location ? (Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y / N
{TL-BRTL.O.10 .Do 1 need to contact other staff ? (Start Date/Time: _IEnd Date/Time: (Complete: Y/ N.
[PL-BRT1.0.11 (7.How do 1 contact the CMT? Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
[TL BRT2.0.33 [Ensure that all staff are accounted for. [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y/ N
IIL-BRT2.0.34 tain details regarding any personnel seriously [Start Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: IComplete: Y/N
jaffected by the Incident
[PL-BRT2.0.35 “ontact Deputy (as available) and ensure that all Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: [Complete: Y/N
other team members are contacted as soon as is
reasonable
[PL-BRT2. When will you attempt to contact these staff [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y/N
lagain ?
ITL BRT2.0.1 “heck with next of kin if these staff are away or [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
mn holiday etc.
[TL-BRT2.0.2 eave message that they are to contact the Team [Start Date/Time: {End Date/Time: Complete: Y/ N
Leader before returning to work.
[IL-BRT2.0.3, ff unsure of the situation and cannot confirm it Start Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: Complete: Y/N
ia the CMT, everyone should stay near the
telephone that the CMT has the number for and
jawait instruction
ITL-BRT2.0.4 IKeep in regular contact with Team Members to {Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/ N
reassure them that the situation is under control
land provide advice.
ITL-BRT2.0.5 When notified by the CMT, ensure that you and [Start Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
your staff pack and proceed to your Alternative
‘Team Location as requested.
ITL-BRT2.0.6 identify any critical activities, documents, or (Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/ N
lactions possibly affected by the Incident.
TL-BRT2.0.7 identify all critical aspects of work in progress _ [Start Date/Time: _[End Date/Time: _{Complete: Y/N
© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 46 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
TL-BRT2.0.8 identify the key events that have recently Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: ¥ / N
curred to the company.
TL-BRT2.0.9 identify any deadlines that may occur soon. Start Date/Time: _IEnd Date/Time: Complete: Y / N
[PL-BRT2.0.10 identify the extent of any lost data. [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: _[Complete: Y/N
ITL-BRT2.0.11 identify any catch-up processes that may be {Start Date/Time: {End Date/Time: jComplete: ¥ /N
required to perform.
/PL-BRT2.0.12 identify any work around procedures that may [Start Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: Complete: Y N
bbe required.
TL-BRT2.0.13 identify any special staffing requirements for theIStart Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y N
rganisation,
ITL-BRT2.0.14 identify any special projects that may alter the _ {Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: IComplete: Y /N
recovery priorities.
[PL-BRT2.0.15 inform the CMT members of the business tart Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: [Complete: ¥ /N
requirements identified
TL BRT2.0.16 Start the Incident Log Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: _IComplete: Y/N
ITL-BRT2.0.17, “reate a staff location list for all members of (Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y / N
staff.
TL-BRT2.0.18 IAssist with all personal problems arising from [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y/N
he Incident.
TL-BRT2.0.19 Laintain status information on any company Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y / N
personnel receiving medical treatment or other
disaster related services.
TL-BRT2.0.20 IReport the level of employee assistance being [Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y /N
rovided to the CMT.
TL-BRT2.0.21 if appropriate, arrange for petty cash to be made(Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: IComplete: Y /N
javailable.
EL-BRT2.0.22 {f appropriate, arrange for hotel accommodationIStart Date/Time: [End Date/Time: Complete: Y /N
to be made available for members of staff.
TL BRT2.0.23 if appropriate, arrange travel for relevant Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: IComplete: Y/N
members of staff.
TL-BRT2.0.24 identify and arrange for essential equipment to [Start Date/Time: {End Date/Time: Complete: Y/N
jbe provided.
TL BRT2.0.25 Stand down other non-essential personnel & Start Date/Time: IEnd Date/Time: Complete: Y/ N
yervices.
ITL-BRT2.0.26 If required to work at alternative location or (Start Date/Time: [End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N
jaway from home, consider the checklist items
below:
Business Continuity Plan
Mobile phone
Charger & spare batteries
© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 47 of 67
ICL Pathway

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 1.0
Date: 07/11/00

‘Travel plugs
Laptop - Charger & spare batteries
Money & Credit cards

Food & Beverages

Change of clothes

Overnight Bag

Own contact list

Passwords

Security Pass

Medicine - for personal use
Organiser / diary

Keys

Passport

Driving License

[TL-BRT2.0.27

inform close famil

of departure to Alternate
Site or Crisis Management Site.

{Start Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N

[TL-BRT2.0.28

[Provide the Incident Management Team with a.
‘ontact list with the alternate site locations at
hich each team member is located

[Start Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: Complete: Y/N

[TL-BRT2.0.29

‘upport Resumption Management in filling
requests for additional personnel.

[Start Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N

[IL-BRT2.0.30

IAssist in the creation and maintenance of
internal phone directories to ensure
ommunication among relocated business areas

[as necessary.

tart Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: {Complete: Y/N

{TL-BRT2.0.31

se company credit card where possible to pay
for critical expenses and keep receipts safe so
they can be sent to Finance staff

{Start Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: (Complete: Y/N

[IL-BRT2.0.32

[Do not exceed a reasonable level of expenditure
without authority from the
“MT.

Start Date/Time:

[End Date/Time: (Complete: ¥/ N

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 48 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10.2.5 External Contacts

Listed below are the contacts who may need to be informed following an

incident.
Name: osD Work:
Belfast
Address: Belfast Home:
Fax:
Mobile:
EMail Address:
Contact Unix Team — i
Name: Andy Gibson i
NT Team —- '
Darren Dillon H
:GRO
Name: HSH / !
smc i
Address: STEO9 Home: Soerenned
Fax:
Mobile:
EMail Address:
Contact lan Cooley
Name:
Name: BRA01 Access R
Security
consultants -
Address: Via Workplace Home:
Technology
Fax:
Mobile:
EMail
Address:
Contact I Mike Wood /Paul Sinclair
Name:

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 49 of 67
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref:
Version:
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

CS/QMS/004
1.0
07/11/00

Name:

Pathway
Development

Address:

ICL
FELO1

Fax:

Mobile:

EMail

Address:

GRO

Contact
Name:

Name:

CS Support
Services
Manager

Address:

ICL
BRAO1

Home:

Fax:

Mobile:

EMail

Address:

Contact
Name:

Peter Burden

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 50 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10.2.6 Vital Records

This list contains all the vital records for the department. These records
should be re-created as part of the departmental recovery process.

Record Name: Operation Manual
Media Type: Word document

Recovery Source: PVCS

Source Contact Details: Alex Hanson CM
Required By: All SSC staff

Record Name: Back Up Procedures

Media Type: HTML Pages

Recovery Source: SSC Web site backup copies

Source Contact Details: _ SSC manager, SSC Senior technician
Required By: All SSC staff

Record Name: Department Contact List

Media Type: HTML Pages

Recovery Source: SSC Web site backup copies

Source Contact Details: _ SSC manager, SSC Senior technician
Required By: All SSC staff

Record Name: Known Error Log / OCP database

Media Type: HTML Pages

Recovery Source: SSC Web site backup copies

Source Contact Details: _ SSC manager, SSC Senior technician
Required By: All SSC staff

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 51 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

10.2.7 Critical Equipment

Listed below is information regarding the equipment that may be required
following an incident.

Equipment Name:

Description: SSC Build PCs

Location: FELO1

Required By: All SSC staff who have moved to FELO1

Owner: SSC Manager

Quantity: 5

Requirements Over Time :Required 4 hrs after disaster declared

Equipment Name:

Description: SSC Web server / Powerhelp access PC

Location: FELO1

Required By: All SSC staff who have moved to FELO1

Owner: SSC Manager

Quantity: 1

Requirements Over Time :Required 4 hrs after disaster declared

Equipment Name:

Description: Access to Powerhelp

Location: FELO1

Required By: SSC Co-ordinator

Owner: SSC Manager

Quantity: 1 link

Requirements Over Time :Required 4 hrs after disaster declared

Equipment Name:

Description: Access to live system

Location: FELO1

Required By: SSC Diagnosticians

Owner: OSD

Quantity: 5 links to live system, with connectors available, firewall access

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 52 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Requirements Over Time :Required 4 hrs after disaster declared.

10.2.8 SSC Back up Facilities at FELO1
The kit will be located in meeting room 6 - "D" block (M6).

Reception will be able to give directions and a swipe card that works for D
block (normal cards will not work).

There will be 7 PC's set up there:-

SSCFELO1 - SSC workstation
SSCFELO2 - Webserver
SSCFELO3 - SSC workstation
SSCFEL04 - SSC workstation
SSCFELOS5 - SSC workstation
SSCFELO6 - SSC workstation
SSCPublic - PiniCL system.

Logon to the workstations using PWYDCS username and password. These
are the same as BRAO1 workstations except:-

1) The webserver is on the private network as well
(http:\223.94.9.12\SSCHome.htm).

When launching IE for the first time Microsoft will insist on using their wizard
to setup internet access. Ignore it (select the option as already setup by SSC
staff) and whenever it is necessary to access the web server just find the file
c:\PathIE\pathway.htm and double click on it (it is possible to setup this file as
the default page for IE). This file has links to the SSC web server and the
Tivoli web server.

Other details

IP address range:-

SSCFELO1 223.94.9.11
SSCFELO2 223.94.9.12
SSCFELO3 223.94.9.13
SSCFELO04 223.94.9.14

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 53 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

SSCFELO5 223.94.9.15
SSCFELO6 223.94.9.16
Netmask: 255.255.255.0
Gateway: 223.94.9.254
WINS: 223.64.1.73
WINS: 223.74.1.73

Private network is patched to point 21 in the meeting room.

OSD Service Management (e.g. Steve Gardiner or Ken Wood) can
setup/remove this patch

SSCFELO1 and SSCFELO3 have administrator username/password as per all
the SSC workstations.

SSCFELO2 administrator: SSC.2312
SSCPUBLIC administrator: SSC.2312

SSCPUBLIC 192.168.77.144
Netmask 255.255.255.0

Gateway 192.168.77.1

Public network is patched to point H10 in the meeting room.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 54 of 67
FU.

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
11. Appendix D SSC PC Build Details

11.1. SSC workstation build eL

Hardware used: Base Fujitsu eL, PIll 500
128mb memory and 8mb Rage Pro graphics card.

11.1.1 Build process

1) Basic NT build using PIT products (see Initial products)
2) Add SSC products (see Additional products / customisation over PIT build)

At this point the disc image is ghosted off to
\SSCDIAG‘1\e$\ghost51climages\wkseL01.gho

3) When building a new PC, the ghost image is downloaded using a DOS
network load disc which connects to \\SSCDIAG 1\ghost51c to run ghost. This
is used to overwrite the system hard disc with the image wkseL01.gho.

4) Run various actions to finish build (see “At desk” action for SSC
workstation build).

11.1.2 Initial products

Initially built with (PIT builds) :-
NTWKS40A_2_0_B008 (\\sscdiag1\packages\NTWKS40a)
Removed customisations Remposix.img and Isdn.img
(note after build, local admin password is PATHWAY)
Network card U/S after initial build.
copy Intel drivers from Fujitsu CD-ROM (\drivers\network\intel) to floppy disc
Install pro+ network card from a:\

SSC_WKS_2_0_B001 (\\sscdiag1\packages\ssc_wks_2_0_B001)
Map Y: to \\SSCDIAG1\E$ before calling _INSTALL.bat

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 55 of 67

FUJ00232449
IJ00232449
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

11.1.3 Additional products / customisation over PIT build
1) Rename "My Computer" to SSCBRAOO
2) Install Mach 64 VT-B driver
Increase desktop to 1024x768
65536 Colours
70 Hertz
3) Remove "My Briefcase" from Desktop
4) Install pkzip 2.04g to c:\zip
5) CD-Rom drive letter changed to I:
Shortcut added to AllUsers\Desktop
6) Winzip 6.3 installed to c:\Program Files\winzip
Installed with "classic" interface.
Shortcut added to AllUsers\Desktop
7) Textpad 3.2.5 installed to c:\Program Files\textpad
Associated .txt documents with textpad
Shortcut added to AllUsers\Desktop
8) Installed wingrep 2.0 to c:\Program Files\wingrep
Updated to 2.1
Shortcut added to AllUsers\Desktop
9) Message store utility (1.0) installed
to c:\Program Files\Message Store Utility then upgraded
to 2.2 (see 16 below)
Shortcut added to AllUsers\Desktop
10) rclient.exe copied to c:\winnt
Command prompt changed to red text on black and 500 line buffer
11) Installed Exceed 6.1 with the following custom options
Allow all users of machine to see installation
install to c:\Program Files\exceed.nt
user directory c:\Program Files\exceed.nt\user

All Xserver related components
HWM
Host explorer

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 56 of 67
FUJ00232449

FUJ00232449
ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00
FTP for windows explorer
No registration
No Xserver password
Traceroute
Xsession, Xstart
Customise
Telnet profiles generated for BVNW01 and Livetest
X set to single window (800x700)
New xrdb.txt (increse size of xterm, add scroll bars)
Add c:\Program Files\exceed.nt\hwm.exe to exceed toolbar
Generate wstart (xsession) file to start exceed and
hwm (sscwks.ses)
Shortcut to sscwks.ses placed on AllUsers\desktop
Shortcut to telnet placed on AllUsers\desktop
Shortcut to HWM placed on AllUsers\desktop
12) Install IE4.01
Standard install - no desktop change
Delete outlook express from desktop
Create C:\PathlE
Copy Pathway.gif and pathway.htm to C:\PathlE
Launch IE - Select "already have connection" in wizard(sic)
Change default home page to C:\PathlE\pathway.htm
Move Internet explorer program group to all users
Amend HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Internet

Explorer\

Main\Default_Page_URL to "C:\PathlE\pathway.htm"

13) Install Excel 97, Access 97, Word 97
Delete "setup for IE3.02" from desktop"

Install Office SR-1
Remove "office startup" from allusers\startmenu\programs\startup
Install value pack (text data access drivers)

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 57 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Shortcut to Word, Access, Excel placed on AllUsers\desktop

14) Formatted file utility installed to c:\Program Files\ffutil
All current definition files copied to
c:\Program Files\ffutil\Definition Files
Shortcut moved to "all users"

15) NT Posix utilites copied to c:\posix
c:\posix added to system %PATH%

16) Added JSim archive viewer to system.
This was mainly in an attempt to get v2.2 of the
message store utility going, because this install
loads every ocx under the sun! And it worked.

17) Shortcuts added to desktop
eventvwr.exe
textpad.exe
notepad shortcut to Imhosts (\\PBOPWYDCS01\nameres\Imhosts)
shortcut to floppy drive
shortcut to C:\ drive

NOTE: Ensure all desktop shortcuts are in "AllUsers" desktop

18) Setup Crystal Audit drivers

19) Tivoli desktop software v3.1.4
Installed to c:\tivoli\desktop
Shortcut created to "c:\tivoli\desktop\tivoli.exe -port 8002" on desktop

Hosts file amended to include "223.64.1.147 ©WMASTEROO1
WSYSMASTEROO1"

When the desktop is launched - logon to WMASTERO01
Login name must be PWYDCS\xxxxx01 (uppercase PWYDCS)

20) Quick view plus 5.0 Installed along with Adobe Acrobat 3.01

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 58 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

Shortcut added to "AllUsers" desktop for both.

21) C:\AgentEvents added. install.cmd run. See readme.txt

22) Installed LT1_WP_3941 for RQueryUK
Failed to install because msvbvm50.dIl not present.
Copied from old workstation and registered. Install runs OK.
copied ripostesetup.bat to rtools
copied _sleep.exe to c:\
copied riposte licence file to c:\rtools
Riposte now runs up OK on licence 13 (supplied with WP3941)

rqueryuk fails to run up.

Copied Cir server rtools to workstation
Re-installed Riposte on update17
Riposte service disabled at startup.

23) Added directory c:\Pwayzip with Pwayzip.exe

24) Added NR2 hosts and Imhosts files:-
c:\winnt\sytem32\drivers\etc\nr2hosts.txt - hosts
c:\winnt\sytem32\drivers\etc\nr2masterlmhosts.txt - master Imhosts

copied nr2clientimhosts to Imhosts
copied nr2hosts to hosts

25) Installed Visual studio 6 enterprise
Setup forced install of 1E4.01
Custom install - VB, VC++ and tools only
This immediately fixed all problems loading RQueryUK etc
(figures - it loads just about every dll/ocx under the sun!).
Installed MSDN July 99

26) Shortcut to RQueryUK.exe and Rclient.exe added to desktop

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 59 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

27) netuse.txt amended and copied to desktop

28) Amend SecureNT\_Install_Groups_And_Users.cmd
at the end of section :LOCALPWYDCS add:-

NET LOCALGROUP "Administrators" "PWYDCS\SSC Apps MAN" /ADD

11.1.4 “At desk” action for SSC workstation build.

The SSC workstations are initially built by loading a ghost image of the basic
system. This document details the actions required to complete the build
when the PC has been connected to the “red” (live system) LAN.

Parts of this procedure requires administrator access to the PYWDCS
domain.

The local administrator password on this workstation build is PATHWAY

When restoring the ghost image, change size of the C partition to 3960

Required actions

1) Create D drive

On first boot, run up disc administrator. Create partition in spare space and
format as D: (volume label DATA).

2) Change SID and system name

Login as local administrator
Use NewSID to amend the workstation SID and system name:-

Newsid /a SSCBRAxx

Amend Desktop shortcut “SSCBRA0O” to new workstation name.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 60 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

2a) Install Windows NT SP5
Install office SP2

3) Add workstation to the PWYDCS domain

Under Control Panel / Network / Protocol change IP address and Gateway
address for TCP/IP

Gateway = 223.94.28.254

WINS = 223.64.1.73 223.74.1.73

Under Control Panel / Network / Identification
Change domain SSCBRAO1 to domain PWYDCS

System should be restarted after these changes

4) Installing the NT Security

e Log on as Domain Administrator. (Domain PWYDCS, PDC = PBOPWYDCS01 -
223.74.2.66)

e Locate and open the Secure NT folder in the root of C
e Run the _Install_Secure_NT_Workstation.cmd

e Follow the on screen prompts. When asked to select if the system is for Live or
Test, select “L” for live.

e Installation will now complete.

Note...
‘The “_Install_Secure_NT_Workstation.cmd” file MUST be run again after the Trusts are set up
in the PDC.

5) Add domain user to local administrators group

a) PC’s used in BRAO1 - The PWYDCS domain user name for the person using this PC should
be added to the local admin group, e.g,

NET LOCALGROUP "Administratc YDCS\spark01" /ADD

b) PC’s used in FELO1 - Because these PC’s are not specifically allocated to any one person it is
n ry to add SSC Apps SUP to the administrator group e.g.

NET LOCALGROUP "Administrators" "PWYDCS\SSC Apps SUP" /ADD

6) Changing the Administrator Account Name and Password
e Start "User Manager " from the Start Menu

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 61 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

e From the "UserName" list, select the Administrator Account by double-clicking it.

« On the "User Properties" window enter the new Password (Ssc.Wks.0604) and
Confirm-Password

e On the "User Properties" window blank out the Description text box
¢ Click the "OK" button to save the changes

e With the "Administrator" Account still highlighted, select the menu option "User",
"Rename"

e On the "Rename" window enter the new Account Name (sscdeaduser)
e Click the "OK" button to save the change
e Close "User Manager"

7) Implementing BIOS Level Security
Reboot system.
At the prompt, press F2 to enter setup

e Move the Floppy Drive or Drives below the hard drive in the boot Sequence in
the boot menu

« Remove the CD ROM Drive (if fitted) from the Boot Sequence in the boot menu
e Set the Supervisor Password to ssc1bios in the Security menu

¢ Set the “User setup access” to “Limited access”

e Save the new BIOS Settings

e Exit the BIOS Settings Menu

e Reboot the machine if required

8) First user logon

Logon as the PWYDCS\username

a) Internet explorer will insist on putting up its splash screen for two logons.
On the second logon, click the option to turn it off!

Launch IE. Tell the “wizard” (sic) that you already have an internet
connection.

IE will then revert to using the microsoft site as the default (again despite
registry changes in the build). Set default to c:\PathlE\pathway.htm.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 62 of 67
FUJ00232449
FUJ00232449

ICL Pathway CS Support Services Operations Manual Ref: CS/QMS/004
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 07/11/00

b) Mouseware will insist in re-setting up the mouse (despite the fact it has
already been done in the build!).

Click YES

Click next

Select appropriate side for mouse position (watch out for left handers!)
Click next

Click next

Click Finish

c) Setup printer access to SSCBRAP

d) Reset options for cmd prompt. Red text, 500 line buffer.

STOP HERE - SecurelD on NT not required yet.

9) Instructions For Configuring ACE/Agents SecurelD
1. Copying the ACE/Server configuration files to the target Machine
e Collect the following files from the ACE/Server Administrator

SDCONF.REC and SERVER.CER for standard builds, along with
SERVER.KEY for the Remote Admin Workstation.

« Place these files in C:\WINNT\SYSTEM32.

« Place the IP address of the ACE/Server in the following location on the target
machine: C:\WINNT\SYSTEM32\DRIVERS\ETC\HOSTS
BTLFENT01 - 223.74.1.250

2. Enabling SecurelD strong authentication in the Control Panel
e Open Control Panel and select the ACE/Agent applet

e Enable the following :

« Local Access Security

¢ Challenge All Users

e Enable Screen Saver Security

e Enable Reserve Password, supplying a Password of Ace.Ssc.0603 in the
process.

© 2000 ICL Pathway Limited COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 63 of 67
