FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

Thomas Penny

From: Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent: 12 May 2010 11:41
To: Thomas Penny
Subject: FW: Porters Avenue SPSO- HOSI - Expert Witness
Attachments: pic31796.jpg
le I
i I
pic31796,jpg (49 : ! I I I
KB) I I
Penny, — \_POH-4036D —}
FYI
Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
<Oistinguished Engineer
‘Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account,

FUJITSU .

Lovelace Road... Bracknell. _Rerkehize.. R612 8sN_

Tel: H GRO Mmternal:
2.

Mobile: H — Internal:
email: Gareth. Jenkin
Web: http: //uk, fujitsu.c

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

Sent: 12 May 2010 T
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: RE: Porters Avenue SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness

Gareth

The defence are having to put forward a Section 8 application outlining a.
skeleton argument why they require all of the data - which should have been
received by 4 o'clock yesterday. That has not been received and we were
assured it would have been here first thing this morning - it is still not
here. We are not sure why they are bringing along their expert witness and
what questions he may have which is why we cannot give you advance notice.
Once the Section’8 has been received we may have an idea as to what they
may ‘be asking and whether they are still going ahead with their request.

If they decide. that their expert witness will not be required then
obviously you will not be needed either.

I will let you know as soon as the Section 8 has been received or if it is
not being pursued. It maybe wishful thinking on my part but the delay
maybe due to a change of plea!
Sotry for the inconvenience just before your leave.

1
FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

“(Embedded image moved to file: pic31796. jpg)

] To: <lisa.allen.

I ce: “Thomas Penny" <Penny.Thomag

I Subject: RE: Porters Avenue SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness

Lisa,
I thought it simplest to get in touch with you directly.

Firstly, I am available on Friday if I really am needed, though I could do
without a day out in London just before I go on leave! However I am not
available the following week when I understand the actual trial is on. I
understand that the case is at Snaresbrook Crown Court (and I've found out
where it is and how to get there) but that the actual time is unknown until
sometime on Thursday.

I'm still not clear why I'm being asked to go to court for the pre-trial
hearing. From your email below it sounds like ‘it is purely a question of
how many months of data to retrieve for the defence to analyse. I agree
that generating 10 months worth seems a lot and unnecessary, but I don't
see that it needs a Technical expert such as myself to say that. What I
yould say is that-if snapshots are taken they should cover two BTSs so that
a complete Trading Period (one at the beginning and one at the end) are
available since it is at TP rollover that we ensure that the System
accounts align with the declarations, and this would best illustrate what
you have claimed is going on. However is it reallyiworth arguing about?
Isn't it simplest just to give them the 10 months of data rather than waste
time arguing about it? :

However there is a possible implication in the email below that the Defence
have asked for me to be present so as to ask me undisclosed questions. Is
that the case? Is that allowed? I'm not very happy about the idea of
"going in blind" and don't. want to appear not to know what I'm talking
about (which seems a distinct danger to me at the moment).

Please can I have a copy of the Expert Witness report. As you may ‘know
I've had discussions with Charles Mclachlan on the West Byfleet case. He
seemed fairly happy there that there was nothing amiss with Horizon and is
now trying to dig in other directions.

Regards -

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
"Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12_ 8SN
Internal:

Internal:

Gareth. Jenkins}
http://uk. fujitsu.coti™

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office
22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents
are subject to a duty. of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and
amended or that it is virtisfree. ,

iatetatel Original Message-----
From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 07 May 2010 17:47

Zo: Jenkins Gareth. GI
Subject: FW: Porters Avenue SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness

Gareth
More detail here for you.

Penny

-----' Original Message-
From: lisa.allenf
Sent: 07 May 2010°T
To: Thomas Penny

Cc: Post_Office_Security’ } juliet .mcfarlane
Subject: RE: Porters Aventie SPSO -HOSI - Expert Witness

GRO

Penny
i'm very well thank you - I hope you're okay.

In summary this case is related to theft/false accounting over. a period of
about 10 months. Mr Hosi admitted at interview that when he balanced he
would enter the amount of cash shown on his snapshot/trial balance in order
to show a clear balance. He would then roll over and re-enter the actual
cash on hand which would be a lot lower - gradually building up to a loss
of £72k.

There is nothing Gareth needs to review about this case. The defence are
requesting 10 months worth of data and I have suggested that we provide 3
months. A period at the start of the fraud, in the middle and at the end.
The defendant has admitted to False Accounting at, interview (although he
pleaded ‘not guilty') but denied the theft. We are aware of what he did and
how he did it - he told us. Therefore’I do not see why such a vast amount
of data is required as each month will be the same. Having received all the
data requested for the case of MISRA (West Byfleet) I think they think it
is their right to have the same in this case. I have said that the data is
available but will be at their cost - hence the request for the quote.

AS regard to the questions for. Gareth they have not mentioned anything in
particular so I'm not sure of what questions they will ask. It maybe that
they are going to get their expert witness to say why all the data is

needed and we need Gareth to say that a sample will be sufficient. I have

3
sent in a copy of the expert witness report from McLaughlin to Phil Budd on
Tuesday which I think a guy called David Harrison has got. Are you able to
get this from him or shall I send another copy?

The trial is due to start on Monday 17th May but on Friday the court will
decide what data should be provided if any. If the court makes an order
that data is to be provided then the trial will be put off again. We will
not know until Thursday afternoon what time the hearing will be on Friday.
I will call you if that's okay to let you know.

If Gareth wants to contact me direct my number is f

Have a good weekend.

(Embedded image moved to file: pici6702. jpg)

homas Penny"

I GRO

07/05/2010 16:10

<Post_Office_Security’

I ce:

I Subject: RE: Porters Avenue SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness

FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

Thanks Jane.

Lisa - I hope all is well with you. We have some questions:-

Can you give us more detail on the questions Gareth.is going to be
asked? Is he contesting something that McLaughlan has provided? Can

you forward his statement?

We have produced transaction logs - is there anything particular Gareth
needs to review?

Is this the actual trial?
Gareth may have other questions next. week; I will be in touch if he has.
I'd be grateful for your prompt response on this.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas

Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN
FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

I GRO

Fax: _
E-Mail: penny. thoma:
Web: http://uk. fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered
Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW .

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents
are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted
and amended or that it is virus-free.

-----! Original Me:
From: jane.m. owe}
On Behalf Of Post_Office_Security’
Sent: 07 May 2010 15:32

To: Thomas. Penny

Subject: Porters Avenue SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness

Penny
As discussed earlier - please see below a formal request from Lisa

regards

Jane

Jane Owen

Security Team Advisor
Post Office Ltd

3rd Floor, Clippers House
Clippers Quay

Salford
M50 3NW
Tel:
Fax:

Confidential Information:

This email message is for. the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may

contain confidential and privileged information. ‘Any unauthorised
veview,

use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the
intended

recipient please contact ‘me by reply email and destroy all copies of the
original message.

ss heatestaenin alee eteieeceieienetetaiel Forwarded by Jane M Owen/e/POSTOFFICE on

07/05/2010
15:31:02 ----------------------=----
Lisa Allen
To: Post Office
Security@POSTOFFICE
07/05/2010 14:53 ce: Juliet

McFarlane/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
Subject: Porters Avenue
SPSO - HOSI - Expert Witness
FUJ00153099
FUJ00153099

Jane

This is a formal request for Gareth Jenkins to attend a hearing at
Snaresbrook Crown Court, London on Friday 14th May (time to be
confirmed)

as an expert witness for Post Office Ltd in the case of HOSI (Porters
Avenue SPSO). The defence are bringing along their expert witness who is
also the expert witness in the case of MISRA (West Byfleet). Whilst I
maybe

able to answer general questions around the Horizon system I have no
technical expertise which is the reason for the request.

(Embedded image moved to file: pic00994.jpg)

JE IGS EIISI SSIS ISIS SSIS NIG GEIISIISSIISI IOS SSI ISIIE IO IOISCIS III IIS II III III II I
Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered
number

4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, .
EC4Y

oHuQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended. for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
SESE EE ICUS IOI ISOS SES IO GS JOST IIIT I III ISR UTI T III II IIE

FOI OIE IIISIIE IETS SII III IIIT II III III III I Ii

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in’ England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
oHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, .
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
FEI OOO ITSO OOI IONICS IIISISIGIGI SS OICICISI SSIS IOUS EIS ISI IOI I I ise

FEI III IOI III OBIS I ICIS IOIOISICI SISSIES ISIEE

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ .

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, Zeproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system. 1
eepeerrerrererererrererserrrcrr@rrrr rr rt tt ttt ttt tt tr rrr t titi tc ort r sry
