FUJ00152992

FUJ00152992
‘
— ll WM
From: Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent: 26 February 2010 12:35 POH-3+97D
To: jarnail.a.singhé
Ce: Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH
MARCH 2010
Jarnail,

I've no idea what it is that the defence is looking for in this case or exactly what
is alleged to have happened. It is normal to identify a specific time period of about
a month to look for some specific fraudulent transactions. As I've no idea exactly
what is being alleged I can't really advise as to what evidence might be required
either to suppert the prosecution or the defence. POL's prosecution support team have
formal mechanism to request logs for specific periods and there is a process to do
that. Although I have suggested for some time that these logs are requested, I
understand that no such request has been made to Fujitsu. Trying to analyse
transactions over a period of 2 or 3 years is likely to take several weeks or months
of effort - especially if it is not clear what is being looked for - and I certainly
cannot commit that amount of time to it.

Although I spoke to the Defence Expert I have no direct contact details for him.

Trawling throug!. logs to show that nothing has happened is next to impossible what we
need to be looking for is something specific and I have no idea what exactly is
alleged to have happened. Therefore I'm not sure what I can do to help.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Road
Tel:

RG12 8SN

(Note new external number -
fter 31/12/2009) _.
Internal: 1

http: //uk. fujitsu.com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is “nly for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

a---- Origina. Message-----
jarnail.a.sing
26 February 2010 12:22
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

URGENT
Dear Gareth,

Thank you for ycur E-Mail of the 25th February 2010

-

FUJ00152992
FUJ00152992

I Should be grateful if you would kindly please consider what logs you need to look at
and how long this exercise might take. I hope that this takes only a relatively short
period needs to be looked at, in light of the Defendant's regular inflations. Perhaps
you could consitlzr that with the Defence's Expert.. Could you then please kindly
liaise with the Defence Expert and hopefully you can do this exercise together and see
if there is any pattern of errors which might have been counterbalanced by the
Defendant's false accounting.

I am very a ous to get this matter concluded as soon as possible so that we are
ready for Trial at Guildford Crown Court on the 15th March 2010.

You can obviou: me direct on }or our Barrister Warwick Tatford

on his mobile

Many thanks.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law ‘te «

es Could you please let me have a signed copy of your two statements up
to date.
JESSIE CE GHEE E HESS ESSE OHSS GEE ISS EOS OSISEIE INGO a i bs

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ

This email and «.y atcachmenis are coniidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not wine named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this commun tion.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this
email from your syst
JEG HOC SOS OCC OO OS GG IGRI SOG SITE UEIEIEGI ISSO SII IIIA SEI IIS IE

