FUJ00167978
FUJ00167978

From: Oppenheim Tony[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=OPPENHEIMT]
Sent: Fri 18/02/2000 10:37:25 AM (UTC)

To: ‘Baines Keith

Ce: Pope John

Subject: FW: Receipts not equal to Payments

Keith,

I suggest we let this take its course via normal process, keeping an eagle eye out for any problems so that it does not get
stuck.

Tony.

-----Original Message-----

From: Pope John

Sent: 18 February 2000 09:31

To: — Oppenheim Tony; Brunskill Richard

Cc: Muchow Stephen; Warwick Steve

Subject: RE: Receipts not equal to Payments

Tony,

the question of how operationally to treat this, which has already been discussed a number of times with POCL, will be
studied in the proposed Paid Study. It should not really be a question for you or Keith to be drawn into at this stage. We
[Steve Warwick, Phil H, Richard B and I] are not in any way resisting POCL's requests in this area, so no high level
"facilitation" is needed.

The CR we have received seems clear, and we of course would expect to interact with POCL during the study, and if
appropriate present alternatives in the resultant CCN for POCL to select between.

ACP for a paid study is being fast tracked, and I expect to be in a position to issue a CCN next week

John
-----Original Message-———-
From: Oppenheim Tony
Sent: 17 February 2000 18:49
To: Pope John; Brunskill Richard
Ce: Muchow Stephen
Subject: FW: Receipts not equal to Payments

John, Richard,
your take on this?
Tony.

-----Original Message-----
From:

Sent: 17 February 2000 16:20

To: tony.oppenheim!
Subject: Receipts not equal to Payments

Tony,

having looked again at my papers on this, I believe that the narrow issue which we need to discuss is the treatment of
cases where there is an error which manifests itself as an imbalance at stock unit (SU) level. If that error is one that
the User can not fix - either because there is a software bug or reference data error causing the imbalance; or
because there is a user error but it isn’t found - then the operational choice is between rolling-over the SU, which will
FUJ00167978
FUJ00167978

result in a subsequent cash a/c imbalance - or leaving the SU in a state where it is not usable for customer service on
the following day. The discussion which Graeme thought needed to take place - and I agree with him - was around
how such incidents would be handled practically, and the classification of any subsequent cash a/c errors into Data
Error or Not Data Error for LD purposes.

Keith
