FUJ00123031
FUJ00123031

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 07/10/2010 15:46;45..

To: ‘Warwick Tatford'
[/o=Exchange/o!

cc: jarnail.a.singf”

Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Attachments: 0a07.Witness statement Gareth Jenkinsv0.2.doc; SDSTDO01.zappB.doc; SDSTD001.chap03a.doc;
SDSTD001.chap02.doc; GlJ.Summary of Transactions of Interest.pdf

Dear Warwick,

Thanks for your constructive feedback.
Here is the updated document.

What I have done today is as follows:

4. I've completed my outstanding analysis of Charles’ Transaction Corrections and also the Cash movements
2. I've gone through the report and done the following:
a. Moved most of your comments into “boxes” highlighted in cyan and prefixed them with “WT” (for the
simpler ones I've just made the change and deleted the comment)
b. Attempted to address them all. In most cases I have a response below your comment prefixed “GlJ”
c. All my changes are in red (including your comments) and I've used “strikeout” to indicate where I have
deleted text
3. I still need to do the following (probably tomorrow):
a. Ineed to compare Charles’ latest report with the draft and go through my statement to update it where
necessary
b. In particular I've not attempted to address the Travellers’ Cheques issue yet since I understand that it has
changed significantly in the latest report.
c. Remove all the strikeout and boxed comments and make everything black again. (I’ve deliberately left
the quotes from Charles's report in a smaller font, and plan to leave them like that, but could indicate
them in some other way if you prefer.)

I also have 4 attachments to my statement:

© 3 extracts from Horizon’s style guide. Note that I have not sought permission to use these yet
o My response to Charles’ Transaction Correction analysis

I'd appreciate any further feedback you may have on my changes so far. I'm also available to discuss things on the
phone if that is easier.

Penny: Please can you find out if there is a problem in using these extracts from SD/STD/001 — The Horizon Style
Guide. I'm not sure who to ask.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

http://uk fujitsu.com
FUJ00123031
FUJ00123031

BAP ricase consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

From: Warwick Tatford I
Sent: 07 October 2010 07:30
To: Jenkins Gareth GI; jarnail.a.singI
Subject: RE: Draft Witness Statement

Dear Gareth,

Please find attached your draft with my comments (in red). I abbreviate the Professor as M.
Many thanks for your hard work.

Warwick

Subject: Draft Witness Statement
Date: Wed, 6 Oct 2010 1 22 +0100

All,

It was good to meet you last night and put some faces to names and voices. Following that I've now attempted to
draft a Witness Statement as discussed.

<<0a06.Witness statement Gareth Jenkinsv0.1.doc>>

Here is a first draft, and I'd appreciate feedback as to whether I have captured your requirements as to style and
approach. I appreciate that you probably cannot comment on the factual content.

As agreed, I need to do two further pieces of analysis and I've indicated with highlighted comments in boxes
where I should include these. However I thought it was worth getting a first draft of the witness statement to you
before doing that so you have a chance to review the Witness Statement in parallel.

I've heard nothing further from Charles McLachlan regarding an updated version of his Report. Clearly, should
such a report appear, I may well need to update the Witness Statement to reflect any changes.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect

Royal Mail Group Account

http://uk.fujitsu.com

f this emai

we Piease consider the environment - do you really need to pi

This e-mail is only for the use of i Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be pr
Services does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

ileged. Fujitsu
