FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142
ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030
Certification and Retention (PACE) Version: 0.4
Date: 09/12/98
Document Title: Evidential Information - Production, Certification &
Retention (PACE).
Document Type: Process
Abstract: A description of the process required to demonstrate the
integrity of a PACE certificate and the associated
declaration.
Status: Draft

Distribution: Graham King
Patrick Cattermole
Pete Spence
Alan D’Alvarez
Christopher Billings
Martyn Bennett
Library
Les Fereday (ICL Outsourcing)
Matthew Cooper (Alliance & Leicester)
Graham Hooper (Alliance & Leicester)

Author: Barry Procter
Comments to: Author
Comments by: 18'" December 1998

© 1998 ICL Pathway Ltd

Q Document control

0.1 Document history

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 0 of 9
FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142
ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030
Certification and Retention (PACE) Version: 0.4
Date: 09/12/98
Version Date Reason
0.1 4/08/98 Initial draft for comment
0.2 10/08/98 Comments on V0.1 included.
0.3 08/12/98 Figure updated & N.I and Scottish implications resolved
0.4 09/12/98 Updated following review with ICL Outsourcing
0.2 Approval authorities
Name Position Signature Date
Martyn Bennett Director, Quality & Risk
0.3 Associated documents
Reference Vers Date Title Source
1 DW/REQ/0017 1.6 18/03/98 FCMS System Requirements Pathway
Specification
2 PACE 1984 Police & Criminal Evidence Act HMSO
0.4 Abbreviations
CAPS Customer Accounting & Payment Service
FCMS Fraud Case Management System
OPS Office Platform Service
PACE Police and Criminal Evidence Act
0.5 Changes in this version
Figure modified; DN’s removed. Section’s 4 & 5 updated.
0.6 Table of content

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page 1 of 9
FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142
ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030
Certification and Retention (PACE) Version: 0.4
Date: 09/12/98
4. Certification... eee eee ec cece eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseceeeeeeesseeseneeseeiseseseseneesaseseseeereeseees 4
4.1. Certification PrOCESS.............ccsccscecseveseseeeeeeeeseeeeeeenceceeseseseeenceeeseenees 5
5. Supporting Evidence... .ceeeeecceccecceceseeseeceseeeeseeseeseeeceeceeeseeeeseeeeeeeneeeeeees 5
6. Appendix A - PACE Declaration ...............cccccecceseeecseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereneeneees 7
7. Appendix B - Pro Forma Witness Statement. .................::cceeecceseeseeeeeeeeeeeeee 8

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 9
FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142

ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030

Certification and Retention (PACE) version: 09/12/98

Introduction

Prima facie evidence to be presented in support of criminal prosecutions is
obtained solely from the ICL Pathway Fraud Case Management System
(FCMS). This computer output is only admissible in evidence where special
conditions are satisfied. These conditions are described in detail in Section
69 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act [1] and require ICL Pathway to
provide ‘honest’ certification of such computer-generated evidence.

Scope

This process describes the PACE certification of computer evidence
originating within the ICL Pathway Fraud Case Management System (FCMS)
to support criminal prosecutions in England, Wales and Northern Ireland.
PACE does not apply in Scotland even if the host system operates in
England.

This process also identifies secondary evidence which may be required to
demonstrate the integrity of the PACE certificate.

Production and Retention of Computer Evidence
The method by which the ICL Pathway Fraud Case Management System data

is populated, and the steps taken to ensure its secure retention are described
in [1].

Certification
PACE certificates may be required for each individual criminal prosecution
supported by the ICL Pathway FCMS.

Section 69 of PACE provides that:

“In any proceedings, a statement in a document produced by a computer
shall not be admissible as evidence of any fact therein unless it is shown-

a) that there are no reasonable grounds for believing that the statement is
inaccurate because of improper use of the computer and;

a) that at all material times the computer was operating properly or, if not, that
any respect in which it was not operating properly or was out of operation
was not such as to affect the production of the document or the accuracy of

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 9
FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142

ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030

Certification and Retention (PACE) version: 09/12/98

its contents.”

It is therefore vitally important that whoever signs the PACE declaration on
behalf of ICL Pathway can produce evidence to support these statements.

Traditionally, PACE certificates are signed by a senior member of the
Computer Operations staff responsible for managing the computer installation
and its associated networks. ICL Outsourcing performs this role as a
managed service for ICL Pathway,

The certificate (see example at Appendix A) contains a declaration including
the statement “/ sign this certificate knowing that I shall be liable for
prosecution if I have stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not
believe to be true”, it is therefore in his rational self-interest to ensure a) that
the logs are adequately comprehensive and b) that they are investigated
thoroughly.

4.1. Certification Process

The manager of the ICL Pathway Fraud Risk Management team, or his
deputy, will advise a nominated member of ICL Outsourcing of the relevant
dates and times for which a PACE certificate is required.

The ICL Outsourcing nominee will consult operational records pertaining to
computer and network operations on the dates and times advised, in order to
satisfy himself that the certificate can be signed with confidence.

A statement should accompany the certificate to the effect that additional
(supporting) evidence to uphold the certificate can be produced if so desired.
To offer all the evidence without it being requested would only serve to flood
the courtroom with documentation.

Supporting Evidence

In order to demonstrate the integrity of a Horizon PACE certificate for the
Benefit Payment Service, it is necessary to describe the information flow from
CAPS to OPS and from OPS to the FCMS and to illustrate where
cryptographic and integrity protection are applied.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 9
FUJ00152142
FUJ00152142

ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030

Certification and Retention (PACE) version: 09/12/98

End to End Payment Protection

(Benefits Agency)

File integrity protected by RedPike encryption

(SMDS link) I ~<——— of either file checksums or TPDU data packets

Pathway Central
Sites (secure domain)

-<—_— Payment data transferred in clear

+ Digital Signature added to each payment

<—_!___.

LPN. Payment authorisation data
transferred & stored with
° digital signature protection

PI ras [77 oxal Ie

= <«—_-

Signature verified on
payment

Figure 1 - BPS Information Flow

Given the size and complexity of the Horizon system, it is conceivable that
the integrity of the PACE certificate will be challenged by Counsel in order to
discredit a prosecution. If it is not possible to demonstrate the certificate’s
integrity to the Court’s satisfaction, a very dangerous precedent will have
been set and all subsequent prosecutions will be automatically jeopardised.
However, the corollary is also true and a successful demonstration of honest
certification will stand all subsequent prosecutions in good stead.

Comprehensive records pertaining to the site(s), services and individuals

concerned should be able to be produced for all material times. These

records will serve to show that the relevant services were available at all

material times, were operating properly and had not been used

inappropriately.

This secondary evidence should include, but is not restricted to, the following
e An external Auditor's certificate of data integrity;

e Logs of calls to the Horizon System Helpdesk and the Payment Card Helpline
detailing incidents of error, inaccuracy or malfunction pertaining to the sites,
equipment, services and individuals concerned;

¢ A log of ISDN ‘ping’ records which demonstrate the availability of network
communications between the affected site(s) and the Data Centre;

e Operational logs and shift handover documentation to demonstrate consistent
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 9

FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142

ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030

Certification and Retention (PACE) version: 09/12/98

operation and availability of the service;
Secure NT, Dynix and SecurlD definitions;

Testimony from expert witnesses stating that, in their experience similar
incidents have never happened or, if they had, that they would be reflected in
the relevant audit log.

Appendix A - PACE Declaration
DECLARATION

e To the best of my knowledge and belief there are no reasonable grounds
for believing that the information or statement in the document(s) identified
above is inaccurate because of improper use of the computer system.

e At all material times the computer devices were operating properly, or if
not, any aspect in which they were not operating properly, or were out of
operation, was not such as to affect the integrity of the data processed, the
production of the document(s) or the accuracy of its content.

e I occupy a responsible position in relation to the computer systems,
namely: Pathway Service Manager.

e I sign this certificate knowing that I shall be liable to prosecution if I have
stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe to be true.

Signed hea neeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeseeeeeeeeeeeeenee Date Jd
PrintName oie cece eeeeettseeeeeeeeeeeeettseeeeee

Signature witnessed ................. cc eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereeeeenee Date Jd

by

Dr Martyn Bennett, ICL Pathway Director of Quality & Risk

Full name and address of employment:

7.

ICL Pathway, Forest Road, Feltham, Middlesex. TW13 7EJ

Appendix B - Pro Forma Witness Statement

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 9
FUJ00152142
FUJ00152142

ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030

Certification and Retention (PACE) version: 09/12/98

Witness Statement

Statement of:
Age if under 18: (if over 18 insert ‘Over 18’)
This statement (consisting of Pages, each signed by me) is true to

the best of my knowledge and belief and I make it knowing that, if it is
tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully
stated in it anything I know to be false or do not believe to be true.

Dated the day of 19
Signature:

Signature..
by...

. Signature witnessed

Continuation sheet No.

Continuation of Statement

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 9
FUJ00152142

FUJ00152142
ICL Pathway Evidential Information - Production Ref: RS/PRO/030
Certification and Retention (PACE) Version: 0.4
Date: 09/12/98
of:
‘Signature. ... Signature witnessed
by.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 9
