FUJ00152922
FUJ00152922

Sent:
To:

Ce:
Subject:

Thanks David

hugh.flemington@/_ j[hugh. flemington@
Wed 03/02/2010 6:44:06 PM (UTC)

Wilkerson Guy[Guy. wuersonG
jamail.a.singh@{___ GRO fjarnail.a.singh@{_ GRO }]
Re: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

Jarnail is the criminal lawyer dealing with it at this end.

Kind regards
Hugh

<Guy. Wilkerson@
Subject: RE: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

; Hugh Flemington; "Wilkerson Guy"

I am in Court tomorrow but will be available at breaks etc.

If you need me please call my mobile or send me a text

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

FUJITSU

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 03 February 2010 15:12

To: hugh.flemington@:
Cc: Wilkerson Guy *

Jones David M

Subject: RE: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

Hugh

Mark Dinsdale is the Security Team Manager in Salford.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

Web: _ http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered
Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents
are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted
and amended or that it is virus-free.

oan Original Message-- eee
From: hugh.flemington@
[mailto:hugh.flemington@ GRO
Sent: 03 February 2010 15:67
To: Jones David M

Cc: Wilkerson Guy; Thomas Penny
Subject: Re: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

Thank you
Stupid question - who at Pol is the contact on this plse?

I To:  <Hugh.flemington@

I
ec: "Wilkerson Guy" <Guy.Wilkerson:
"Thomas Penny" <Penny.Thomas@t___ GRO _
I Subject: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

>

Hugh
Please see attached FYI.

Fujitsu is very keen to try and help POL with this matter and provide
information to respond to the Defence request. Please let me know if I
can

help in any way.

Guy is the Commercial person responsible for the contractual aspects of
providing this work to POL under our contract and Penny is pulling
together

FUJ00152922
FUJ00152922
the inputs on our service and the applications.
Please do not hesitate to contact me if I can assist in any way.

Best wishes

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

From: Jones David M

Sent: 03 February 2010 11:42

To: Thomas Penny; Wilkerson Guy

Cc: Keeling David; Lillywhite Tom; Williams Roger; Roberts David (LON22)
Subject: RE: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES

Importance: High

Penny / Guy

I have now looked at this - both at the background and the specific
information requested by the Defence Expert.

It is for POL to decide what they want us to do to support the
prosecution

as although there is no "property" in a witness we are engaged to
support

POL contractually and will need them to cover the work involved. We
should

ask POL (and via them their counsel) to confirm that they want us to do
the

work requested and whether they want us to provide -

1. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss how to
access an unencrypted version of the transaction files held on the
sub-post office terminals related to the Hosi case.

2. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss the
structure of the transaction files, the mechanisms by which they

are
synchronized with the central system and the records held
centrally.

3. An unencrypted copy of full transaction log of the sub-post office
terminals related to the Hosi case.

4. An unencrypted copy of the corresponding records held by the

central
system

We need to explain what can be done and the time scales and costs
involved

and then Guy can put in place an ATP to cover the work involved. If this
work cannot be done in the timescales ordered by the court then we need
to

tell POL and its counsel so that they can apply to court for more time.
We

FUJ00152922
FUJ00152922
need an ATP and or specific authority not just to cover our costs
involved
but to ensure that any disclosure and work have POL's approval.

POL and its counsel must also agree how we provide any access to our
people

for the Defence expert and who is also present and how the exchanges are
recorded and minuted.

Any access must be subject to confidentiality agreement or a release
FOL - our standard NDA will need amending if we are going down this
Ail access should be joint with a suitable POL person in attendance so
totes that arise from their requirements can be dealt with by POL and
us

If necessary please feel free to forward this note to POL.

Best wishes

David

David M Jones, Head of Legal
UK Private Sector Division

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 03 February 2010 10:40

To: Jones David M

Cc: Keeling David; Lillywhite Tom
Subject: FW: WEST BYFLEET ISSUES
Importance: High

David

Please find below the list of questions asked of our expert witness.
Attachments are:-

9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report 19.11.09 - defence's
expert accountant's report - comments requested

0202.Gareth - West Byfleet Final - Gareth's (Fujitsu expert)
responses to the defence's expert accountant's report

143.rtf - Eleanor Nixon's statement - comments requested

In addition, and to present the whole picture for West Byfleet, a

witness

statement prepared by Andy Dunks covering helpdesk calls for the outlet
during the period 30 June 2005 to 31 December 2009 has already been
returned to Post Office Ltd - WS West Byfleet 126023

Also looming is the Post Office Ltd prosecution relating to the outlet

FUJ00152922
FUJ00152922
Porters Avenue. The attached collection of notes - Porters Avenue
Issues -
are also relevant.

As explained in my previous note the urgency here is that during the
pre-court hearing for West Byfleet on Monday 1 February the judge
ordered

that all the defence requests for further information be answered by 4pm
on

Monday 8 February.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny

I have just spoken to the solicitor dealing with this case. The
question

raised by our barrister in his advice states with regards the Eleanor
Nixon

statement is as follows,

" The witness statement does not reveal a problem with Horizon's
reliability but rather a mistake that can easily be made with the layout
of

the screen. It may be that the alleged layout problem is something
which

Fujitsu are aware of and has been rectified. A copy of Mrs Nixon's
statement should be forwarded to Fujitsu for their comments. It should
also be straightforward to ascertain whether or not Mrs Misra was
falling

into the trap identified by Mrs Nixon. . The error described would
presumably create a cash shortage matched by an equal surplus
elsewhere".

A response to this question by Fujitsu would be appreciated, however
brief.

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered
number

4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London,
Ec4y

OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FUJ00152922

FUJ00152922
