FUJ00153159
FUJ00153159

From: Jenkins Gareth GI
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Penny,
I've not heard anything yet from Charles.
However I'll try and explain my view as to these requests.

1. Access to system in Midlands: This was not something we discussed in detail. It would appear that Charles is
aware of a Post Office which is having issues similar to those which have resulted in prosecution, but that there
are currently no prosecutions in place. He would like to monitor exactly what happens in this branch (probably with
a video camera) and compare that with the system logs (hoping to find a mismatch!). However the Postmaster is
covered by confidentiality agreements, which mean that this cannot be done with out permission of POL. I
assume that this is a request to be able to do this. I'm also assuming that help would be required from Fujitsu in
retrieving logs from the system to compare with the video. NB this probably needs to be done quickly before
migrating to HNG-X. Charles's first report refers to such a branch I believe. I've no idea where this postmaster
would stand in respect of any problems that they have had but which are not yet visible to POL, or in respect of
what they have already said to Charles. (But that’s their problem and not ours!)

2. Access to Chesterfield: Charles is still of the opinion that understanding how P&BA operate and in particular how
they identify errors and process them as Transaction Corrections may help his case. I’ve pointed out that anything
in this area that could affect the accounts is already visible to him in the Horizon logs and so I don’t see that this is
likely to be of help to him. However he would still like to pursue this line of exploration.

3. System Change Requests: This is what I mentioned last week. Basically he was asking to look at all system
faults so as to see how he could blame things on those. I suggested that as we kept all testing and Live faults in
the same system and that there were around 200,000 of them, then this wasn’t going to get him far. He then
suggested looking at system changes and would like to see all changes that have happened to the system. Again,
I don’t think this will help and I don’t know how practical it is for RM to provide that. I think all we can do is ask the
question.

My view is that Charles is “fishing” and I don’t personally support any of these requests. However they seem harmless
— other than wasting a lot of people’s time - and hence money.

Does that cover things? I’m in a meeting 2:30 to 4pm today, but could pop up either before or after it.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins

Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

Gareth.Jenkinsf.

Veb: http:/uk fujitsu.com

eS Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

FUJ00153159
FUJ00153159

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Thomas Penny

Sent: 27 July 2010 11:34

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL
Gareth

Please see email string. Do you have any time today?

Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Sent: 27 July 2010 1
To: Thomas Penny
Subject: FW: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL
Penny

As discussed.

Could you ask Gareth to explain in more detail as to how the three points raised by Izzy Hogg below came
about. I would specifically like to know more details of the system in the midlands that is referred to in her first
point.

Regards

Jon Longman

From: Marilyn Benjamin On Behalf Of Jarnail A Singh

Sent: 27 July 2010 10:42

To: John Longman; Warwick Tatford

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

I enclose a copy of an E-Mail received from Issy Hogg, the Defence Solicitors of the 22" July 2010, the
content of which is self explanatory. Could you please be kind enough to let me have your urgent
instructions as to the access and information she is requesting in respect of the system in the Midlands
and the operation at Chesterfield and the error logs. I will contact Gareth Jenkins to find out what
transpired at the meeting with Charles McLachlan.

I await to hear from you.
FUJ00153159
FUJ00153159

Jarnail Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

From: Issy Hogg
Sent: 22 July 2010 07:30
To: Jarnail A Singh
Subject: Misra

Jarnail,

As a result of the meeting that took place between Charles McLachlan
and Gareth Jenkins as directed by the judge, we now need to have:-

- access to the system in the Midlands where it appears there are
live, reproducible errors.

- access to the operations at Chesterfield to understand how
reconciliation and transaction corrections are dealt with.

- access to the system change requests, known error log and new
release documentation to understand what problems have had to be
fixed.

Please can you contact me with regard to these issues. Please can
you respond via hannah.ivoryf

i Hannah will ensure

“Sit your emails are responded to.
Regards,

Issy

Issy Hogg

Coomber Rich Solicitors
Yard House, Basingstoke, RG21 7NX
SRA 308901

jissy.hoggI

FUJ00153159
FUJ00153159

This e-mail is confidential and intended solely for the use by the
individual to whom it was addressed. If you are not the intended
recipient, you are hereby notified that any using, printing,
dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail or any part of
it is strictly prohibited. Please delete all physical and electronic
copies you may have. Any views expressed in this message may be
those of the individual sender and may not necessarily represent the
views of Coomber Rich Solicitors.

(See attached file: C.htm)

creer rrereeeceerereeecccceats ee stenenenenanseneset® Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England
and Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
