FUJ00152643
FUJ00152643

From: Pinder Brian[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PINDERB]
Sent: Thur 02/11/2006 2:38:08 PM (UTC)

To: Jenkins Gareth GIfi
Ce: Sewell Peter (FELO1
Subject: I RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Many thanks for that.
Regards

Brian

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 02 November 2006 08:50

To: Pinder Brian

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Brian,

I ve also seen your reply to Stephen (presumably based on Mik s input). The following may be useful
supplementary info.

Should the system be restarted (for any reason including following a _ freeze), there will be evidence of this in the
Audit trail which we have been examining. Normally the only system restarts are as part of the overnight clear
desk function that occurs between 03:30 and 04:00 each day. Any other restarts can be considered unusual and
could be searched for (1 ve not done this has anyone else? _I can do so if required).

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications Architect
Post Office Account

Web: _http://uk.fujitsu.com

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Pinder Brian
Sent: 01 November 2006 12:22
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
FUJ00152643
FUJ00152643

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)
Subject: FW: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Gareth
Please see below from Stephen Dilley.

I have asked Mik Peach to look into this for me and awaiting his response but is it an issue do you think or is it
something which can be neatly explained?

Regds Brian

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 01 November 2006 11:35
To: ‘Stephen Dilley’

Cc: Tom Beezer; mandy.talbot
martyn.mitchel
Subject: RE: Post Office Limited -v- Lee Castleton

Stephen ci rest

I appreciate the urgency and reasoning around your email and I do not wish to appear negative but usually if a
problem occurs with the system it would be reported to the helpdesk and a proper and logical

investigation would take place. Your email does not indicate if Mr Booth has reported this and if not it may
make it difficult to identify the exact cause, particularly if we need further clarification on any mater.
However I will look into this, and keep you informed of any progress.

Kind Regards Brian

From: Stephen Dilley [-
Sent: 31 October 2006 1
To: Pinder Brian

Cc: Tom Beezer; mandy.talbo'
martyn.mitchell:
Subject: Post Office Limited -
Importance: High

4

Richard Morgan; graham.c.warc

Lee Castleton

Dear Brian,

One of the witnesses in the Castleton case is Greg Booth who was the temporary sub-
postmaster at Marine Drive branch from 21 April to 28 May 2004. Greg is currently the
manager of the Newbury Post office branch, 401 Scalby Road, Scarborough, YO12 6TQ.

Greg spoke to me last week and reported that his computer froze on Wed 25 or Thurs 26
October 2006 (I will clarify which day) whilst he was serving a customer and part way through
a transaction. The transaction had not been settled. It related to a postage label. When he
logged back in again, the computer had lost the transaction of £1.27. The computer did

not prompt him to try to recover it. Greg is away this week, but I will be contacting him upon
his return to obtain a supplemental witness statement about this point. Prior to then, Greg's
evidence was that he had never know the system to lose a transaction. In this particular case,
Greg was £1.27 up because he had taken money from a customer. However, I anticipate the
reverse would have happened if he had been paying money out.

Although this is for a small amount, the principle on the face of it seems concerning because it
suggests that the Horizon system can, (albeit rarely), lose transactions. Castleton's solicitors
will try to exploit any weakness and we must be prepared for a possible attack on this point.
Our Counsel has requested that Fujitsu review the Newbury Post Office's Horizon data for those
days period to see if you can tell whether the system froze and lost the transaction and what
the explanation may be.
FUJ00152643
FUJ00152643

We have to serve Witness Statements very shortly. I will have to prepare a supplemental
Witness Statement for Greg Booth dealing with this and may possibly need to take a further
Witness Statement from somebody at Fujitsu, depending on your explanation. Accordingly, I
would be grateful if you could look into this and come back to me as a matter of urgency.

Kind regards.

Yours sincerely

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor
for and on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and
protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If
you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies.
Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is
prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
00311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond
Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.
