FUJ00155050
FUJ00155050

a Page I of S

i -5635D
From: Jane M Owen § POH-5 _ a)
tl ieee
Sent: 19 September 2011 16:35
To: Thomas Penny
Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian"Wilson)
Attachments: image004.jpg; image005:jpg; image001 jpg °
FYI
Jane Owen .
Security Manager
Crime Risk

Post Office Lid

Confidential Information: his c-moil messages for the sole wie ofthe ime recipient (4) and may contain
confidential and peleleged information. ne unauthorised rete, we, dsclovire or dhstnbudion prohibited.
‘Hy are not the intended reeipten, please conigct me breil e-mail amd desray al cps of the original messoe

From: Mark Dinsdale .
Sent: 19 September 2011 16:34

To: Jane M Owen; John Longman

Ce: Jason G Collins

‘Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank
Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Sorry, I can't find this information as to why various questions were not to be answered. From memory,
tm sure it was because of the sheer scale of the request, and that Fujitsu do not have a list of all update
patches, so a report request would be required at great expense and resource.

Mark Dinsdale

Security Programme Manager
Crime Risk, Security Team
Post Office Ltd

f I ‘Spread the won

aveVine

post.office.security)

+ Confidential taformation: This e-mail message 1s forthe sole ute of the imended recipient (3) and may contain

Confidential and privileged information. an unauthorised review, use. diclowure or disinbution s prohibited.
{vow are nov the intended recipient, pleoxe contact me by reply e-mail nd dexiroy al copies ofthe original message

lease conser he enviroment before pining ths -i

From: Jane M Owen
Sent: 16 September 2011 11:30

‘To: John Longman

Cc: Jason G Collins; Mark Dinsdale

‘Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood
Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Jon
could do to speak to you about this next week

Ata Fujitsti meeting this week Penny did mention the issue that she has highlighted below and in fact Mark has
taken an action away. What Penny said was that she thought that in the West Byfleet case we were asked for similar
information and where told not to provide it but Mark was going to see if he still had an email that related to this?

Anyway [will catch up with you next week. Have a good weekend
Regards

Jane

Jane Owen

Security Manager

Crime Risk
Post Office Ltd

Spread the word:--~~-~ 1

jane mowen
postoffice sail GRO

03/10/2011
FUJ00155050
FUJ00155050

.

Page 2 of 5 *

: ©

From: Thomas Penny (mailto,
5 September 2011 16:45
ne M Owen

Ce: John Longman; Munro Donna .
‘Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edgé Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Jane

We have been working on this request but need clarification from POL on items iii) and vii)-

Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2009 and the reason for those updates

This is a vast area and we would be grateful if you could ascertain precisely what the requirement is.

As you know, I. am on leave from close of play today so I copy in Donna Munro who will be picking this request up in my absence.
Kind regards

Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst .
Customer Services, Post Office Account

Fujteu Seevices
Lovelace Road. Bracknell, Berks RG12 SSN

"h
We bene

Foto Services Limes, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Ofice 22, Baker Steet. London WIU38W
7 —

From: John Longman [mailto GRO J

Sent: 01 September 2011 11:02

To: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Penny
FAD code for Alderly Edge is 301432 and Astwood Bank is 346246.

Regards

You Lougeat

Security Manager
Security Operations - South

Address: Post Office® Ltd Security, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old Street; London, EC 1V.9HQ

Post Office Ltd is 2 trading name of Royal Mail Group Lid, Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 Old Street, London, EC1V9HQ

Contidentiat Inform sion: This email message is or the sale use ofthe intended recipient(s) and may conten
confide ntsland privileged information. Any unzuthorised review, use, disclosure or ditribulion is prohibted,

‘Myov are not the intended recipient please contact me by cepy ema and destroy ailcop es of the orbinal message.
a Pease enrsider the arvtonmert before piting Bice mal

From: Thomas Penny {mailto}

GRO }

‘Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

+ Jon

Just to make sure there is no confusion, please can you provide FAD codes for both outlets,

‘Many thanks
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

03/10/2011
FUJ00155050

FUJ00155050
Page 3 of 5
Fujitsu Senices Rela & Royal Ma Group Account .
Lovelace Road, Brdeknal Berke RGT2 BSN
Fuitsu Services Limited, Regiaterad in England no 96055, Registered Olfce 22, Baker Stee, London WIL 3BW
From: Thomas Penny
11 September 2011 10:43 .

John Longman’
: ‘Jane M Owen!
‘Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Jon .
‘OK. I've read the requirements and spoken to an expert. We do not understand the question and need clarification on:-

The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the losses that
were found within 'the system and details of how those losses.were reconciled or‘otherwise dealt with,

It you are talking about Horizon pilot we believe you will need to-address your question to POL technical experts. ITit's something else, please qualify
I will proceed with identifying which information we will be able to provide and the estimated costs for so doing,

Speak soon

Kind regards

Penny

Penny Thomas
‘Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujtse Secvices Retail Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknel, Berks RG12 8GN

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 95056, Registered Office 2, Baker Sireel London WIU 36W

From: John Longman [mailto:! GRO ]
Sent: 01 September 2011 10:13
To: Thomas Penny

Subje :: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Penny
1am keeping well thank you ~and hope you are also.

1am sorry to bother you again with these information requests but there are still Spmir’s out there who are raising Horizon-integrity issues without exactly
‘specifying which transactions caused the problems, just like the West Byfleet case. However, for the Alderly Edge case, there is a suggestion that a
delivery of.£1,700 worth of stamps to this PO on the 3rd May 2008 was incorrectly recorded by Horizon. I have ordered transaction log data and will
‘examine the transaction but may possibly need Gareth to assist on this one point,

You have everything - point vill was the last request other than the subsequent e-mail that I sent you relating to the hardware information.

Thank you for your continued assistance.

Regards
You Lougenat

Security Manager
Security Operations + South

Address: Post Office® Ltd'Security, 2% Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old'Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.

{Postine!

Post Offce Ltd is @ trading name of Roy2l.Mai! Group Lis. Registered in-England and Wales number: 2154540,
Registered Office: 148 Old Street, London, ECIV9HO

Contidentias inform ation: This emai me ssage is ar the sole wee ofthe intended recipient(s) and may'contain
confide nti and peivieged information. Any unauthorised review, use, dscfosure oF distribution is prohibted.
Myou are not the intended recipient plea se.contact me ty rey email and destioy afi copes af the orginal message.

03/10/2011
FUJ00155050
FUJ00155050

Page 4 of 5 + .

To: John Longman
Cc: Jane M Owen; Jason G Collins; Graham C Ward
‘Subject: RE: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi John
hope you are welt
have not received anything after item vii) ~ am I missing any of your note?

Kind regards :
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujtsu Services Retail & Royal Mal Group Account,
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RGI2 BSN

Webs RISTIRTRIETEETT

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 95056, Registered Ofes 22, Baker Stret. London WIU 384

From: John Longman (mailto! GRO

To: Thomas Penny
Cec: Jane M Owen; Jason G Collins; Graham C Ward 3
Subject: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Penny

Ihave been asked to assist Post Office® solicitors who are dealing with the above two cases whereby Horizon integrity is being called into question, Both
subpostmasters have been prosecuted but are refusing to repay the audit shortages found during the investigation. The subpostmasters have both
‘employed the same firm of Solicitors who are alleging amongst a whole list of concems raised, that the Horizon system suffers with inherent defects.

Post Office® Ltd has been asked to produce a large amount of information similar to the West Byfleet case. Some of the information requested can be
provided by Post Office® Ltd but some can only be provided by Fujitsu.

Could the following items be provided by Fujitsu for both Post Offices and if there is to be a cost to Post Office® Ltd for this information could an
approximate costing be provided before the data is obtained.

ASTWOOD BANK .

i) Details of Horizon system testing with respect to the ability of the Horizon system to produce information with sufficient clarity to allow a
‘Subpostmaster to reconcile discrepancies.

ii) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Astwood Bank Post Office® for the, period 1st November 2002 to 11th September 2008.

i) Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2008 and the reason for those updates.

i) The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the
losses that were found within the system and details of how those losses were reconciled or otherwise deait with

ALDERLY EDGE

vy) Details of Horizon system testing with respect to the ability of the Horizon system to produce information with sufficient clarity to allow a
‘Subpostmaster to reconcile discrepancies,

vi) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Alderly Edge Post Office® for the period 12th March 2005 to 28th February 2009.

vil) Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2009 and the reason for those updates,

vill) The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the
losses that were found within the System and details of how. those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with

03/10/2011
FUJ00155050
FUJ00155050

Page 5 of 5

I

“#1088 Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203
registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHO This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
cniy. ff you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system. “*7+***"*+s+# rseewnaneen “

+ Royal Mail Group Liuted registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203
registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must nol use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. if you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203

registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHO This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. I you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents ofthis communication. If you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system. “**t**ss+veseresseeeveneen ae

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services L
Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu"

(ed, from Fujitsu (FITS) Limited, or from Fujitsu

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not
guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London WIU 3BW.

Solihull

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered offi
Park. Birmingham, B37 7YU.

'arkway, Birmingham Business

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203

registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communicati have received
this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system, “****trsta+terseressastuasensenseversnnessenaaennass .

03/10/2011
