FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOQO1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

JULY 1996 EDITION

CONTENTS

1 DEFINITIONS

2 DURATION

3 AGREEMENT

4 QUALITY AND DESCRIPTION

5 DELIVERY, TITLE AND RISK .

6 IME FOR DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SUPPLIES

7 NOT USED

8 PRICES

9 PAYMENT TERMS

10 ‘NOT USED

11 PROJECT MANAGEMENT

12. CHANGE CONTROL ae
13 STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS

14 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS : I I I
15 ASSIGNMENT I
16 OTHER SUPPLIERS TO PATHWAY ! nH
17s INSOLVENCY OR LIQUIDATION _ POH-2896D I
18 CONFIDENTIALITY

19 PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

20  SUPPLIER’S PERSONNEL

21.“ LIABILITY AND INSURANCE

22 AUDIT

23° CANCELLATION/TERMINATION

24 = SET-OFF

25 GENERAL

SCHEDULE A SPECIFICATION OF SUPPLIES

Al SPECIFICATION / APPENDIX 1, 2 & 3
A2 QUALITY

A3 NOT USED

A4 NOT USED

AS NOT USED

A6 NOT USED

A7 MAXIMUM SIZE AND FREQUENCY LIMITS

SCHEDULE B PLACING OF ORDERS

Bl ORDERS

SCHEDULE C NOT USED

SCHEDULE D PRICING TERMS

Dl PRICING
D2 PRICES
D3 STANDING PAYMENT PROFILE
D4 GENERAL

SCHEDULE E PROJECT MANAGEMENT

SCHEDULE F CHANGE CONTROL

Fl SCOPE
F2 PRINCIPLES
F3 PROCEDURE

SCHEDULE G PERFORMANCE MEASURES

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 1 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO, PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

ts
This Purchase Agreement ("this Agreement") (ref no. PEO01) is made the 7A
day of Dole, 19

between ICL Pathway Limited ("Pathway")

of 1 High street, Putney, London, swW15‘1sw, England

and Peritas Limited ("the Supplier")

of Beaumont, Burfield Road, Old Windsor, Berkshire, SL4 2JP

WHEREAS Pathway has entered into a contract (hereinafter called “the
Main Agreement") with the Department of Social Security
(hereinafter “the DsS") and Post Office Counters Limited

(hereinafter "POCL") to computerise and operate a computerised
service in respect of the DSS’s benefits payment system and
PocL‘s counter infrastructure.

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:
1 DEFINITIONS

1.1 “Acceptance” shall be taken’ to have occurred when the relevant
Acceptance Procedure defined in Schedule A Clause Al.2 has been
successfully completed; “Accept" shall be construed accordingly.

1.2 NOT USED

1.3. “Change” means a change to this Agreement, or to an Order, or to the
specification of any of the Supplies.

1.4 NOT USED

1.5 “Confidential Information" means all information designated as such by
either party in writing together with all other information which
relates to the business, affairs, products, Supplies, developments,
trade secrets, know-how, personnel, customers and suppliers of either
party or the DSS or POCL, or information which may reasonably be
regarded as the confidential information of the disclosing party or
the DSS or POCL. .

1.6 “Hardware” means any hardware to be supplied by the Supplier hereunder
or under an Order, including:
1.6.1 the physical media on which any Software is supplied; and
1.6.2 any tangible object.

1.7. “Implementation Plan” means the plan produced by Pathway and given to
the supplier, showing the phasing of training associated with the
roll-out of the Pathway systems into post offices. See Appendix 2.

1.8 , “order“ means an order placed by Pathway, in accordance with schedule
B, for the Supplies from the Supplier under the terms of this
Agreement.

1.9  \"“Performance Measure" means a measure of delivery or performance by

the Supplier of the supplies, as contained in Schedule G.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

1.10 “Service” means. a service to be performed by the Supplier hereunder or
under an Order.

1.11 NOT USED

1.12 “Specification” means the specification of the Supplies set out and/or
referred to in Schedule A. \

1.13 NOT USED

1,14 “supplies" means the Hardware, software, Services, articles or things
to be supplied by the supplier hereunder or under an order.

1.15 NOT USED

2 DURATION

2.1 This Agreement shall be effective from the date shown above and shall, .
subject to the rights of termination herein, continue in operation
until Pathway has completed the roll-out phase of the Main Agreement,
or until Pathway informs the Supplier by giving one (1) month’s notice
in writing that it has no further requirements for the Supplies,
whichever is later.

3 AGREEMENT

3.1 The Supplier undertakes to supply Pathway with or perform the Supplies
against orders placed by Pathway under the terms of this Agreement,
and in accordance with the Implementation Plan. The maximum limits,
if any, to the size and frequency of each delivery or performance
eccasion of the Supplies are stated in Schedule A Clause A7; the
Supplier shall not be obliged to deliver or perform in excess of such
limits, but shall nevertheless use reasonable endeavours to do so when
requested by Pathway.

3.2 This Agreement constitutes an Order in respect of the items in
Schedule D3.

4 QUALITY AND DESCRIPTION

4.1 The Supplies shall conform to the quality requirements contained in
the Specification and in Schedule A Clause A2.

5 DELIVERY, TITLE AND RISK

5.1 The Supplier shall at its own expense deliver any Hardware, suitably
packed and marked with the relevant product name, code and serial
number, to or at the place specified by Pathway. All packages must be
marked with the supplier’s name, the delivery address as notified by
Pathway or otherwise agreed, and the number of separate packages must.
be identified.

5.2 Title,. risk and property in any Hardware shall pass to Pathway on
delivery of the supplies.

5.3 NOT USED

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 3 of 42
CoO Co C3

Co Co Co co eo oo ho) elle a ae aes

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOQO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

‘TIME FOR DELIVERY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE SUPPLIES

The supplier shall deliver or perform the Supplies at the time or
times necessary to keep up with the Implementation Plan, or as
otherwise agreed with Pathway. The Supplies may not without Pathway’s
agreement be delivered or performed earlier or later than the due
delivery or performance date. Keeping up with the agreed roll-out
schedule shall be of the essence of the performance of the Services.

NOT USED

The supplier shall deliver or perform the Supplies in accordance with
the Performance Measures contained in Schedule G. Any failure to
achieve the Minimum Acceptable Level shall confer the rights on
Pathway defined by Clauses 6.3.1 and 6.4.

For the avoidance of doubt, only the underlined frequency or
frequencies in the relevant Performance Measure apply to that
Performance Measure.- For the further avoidance of doubt, those
frequencies refer to the frequency with which the Supplier shall
report its achieved performance level to Pathway. The period over
which the performance is to be measured is monthly and quarterly for
Performance Measures PE201, PE204 and PE207. For Performance Measures
PE202, PE203 and PE205 and PE206, performance is to be measured on a
per course basis.

6.3.1 If in relation to any delegate attending the training course,
the Minimum Acceptable Levels defined by Performance Measure
PE205 are not achieved, the Supplier shall at no additional cost
to Pathway undertake remedial training for that delegate.

If in relation to any training course the Minimum Acceptable
Levels defined by Performance Measure PE203 are not achieved,
the Supplier shall reduce its charges for that course in line
with the damages schedule quoted on the Performance Measure.

If delivery or performance of the Supplies or any part thereof,
measured over the performance review period is below the
Contract Review Level, then the Supplier shall produce a report,
outlining the causes, and the proposed corrective action
(Problem Notification Report). Pathway shall at their
discretion, call a contract review meeting with the supplier.
The level and seniority of the attendees of the Supplier’s
personnel shall be as required by Pathway, although Pathway
shall provide reasonable notice for such a meeting. Such a
review to be called no more than thirty (30) days, after the
receipt of the Problem Notification Report.

No remedies are applicable in relation to failure to achieve the
Minimum Acceptable Levels of Performance Measures PE201, PE202,
PE204, PE206, PE207 and PE208. The Supplier shall nevertheless
use its best endeavours to exceed such Minimum Acceptable
Levels.

6.3.2 NOT USED

If delivery or performance of the Supplies or any part thereof,
measured over a period of any rolling three (3). months, is below the
Termination Review Level, where applicable, Pathway shall be entitled
to terminate this Agreement, either summarily in writing or at

Suly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 4 of 42
EH He HE HE He He Se EE ee

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOQ1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

Pathway’s discretion by giving up to thirty (30) days’ written notice.
Except that in relation to Performance Measure PE208, Pathway may only
terminate the Management of Change Service.

Pathway’s entitlement to terminate shall however lapse, if not already
exercised, thirty (30) days after the circumstances which gave Pathway
its right to terminate under this clause have occurred, provided
delivery or performance of the Supplies reaches and remains
continuously at or above the Minimum Acceptable Level during such
thirty day period.

If Pathway terminates this Agreement under the terms of this Clause
6.4 Pathway shall be entitled to return supplies already delivered or
performed (insofar as such Supplies are capable of return) but not yet
paid for, and shall have no further liability to the supplier (other
than to pay for supplies delivered or performed but not paid for and
which Pathway does not return). such termination shall be without
prejudice to any other rights that Pathway may have in respect of the
supplier’s failure to deliver or perform the Supplies at or above the
Termination Review Level.

Pathway’s remedies under this Clause 6 are cumulative and not
alternative rights in respect of any given failure by the Supplier to
achieve the Minimum Acceptable Levels.

The time for delivery or performance shall be extended by a reasonable
period if delay is caused by act of God, refusal of licence (where the
application has been timely and appropriately filed) or other
governmental act, fire, explosion or by any other cause beyond the
Supplier’s reasonable control; for the avoidance of doubt, a delay
caused by an industrial dispute between the supplier and its own
workforce, and a delay caused by a dispute between the Supplier and
Pathway or a sub-contractor or supplier to the Supplier are deemed not
to be beyond the Supplier’s reasonable control. Should the Supplier
experience any such cause then the Supplier shall promptly notify
Pathway in writing of the cause and the likely duration of such delay.
Pathway shall at its option be excused from accepting or paying for

‘the supplies for the duration of such cause. Pathway may cancel the

order or terminate this Agreement without liability in the event of
more than thirty days delay in delivery or performance of the supplies
for any such cause and in such event the Supplier shall immediately
repay to Pathway any sums paid by Pathway for any Supplies not
retained by Pathway.

Where delivery or performance is delayed by reason of delay in the
granting of any necessary import or export licence then the provisions
of Clause 13.7 shall apply.

If, after the date of the Agreement, the Supplier shall have been
delayed or impeded by an act or omission of Pathway or any
circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the supplier, and
providing the supplier shall have notified Pathway in writing of such
delay or impedance, the supplier shall be granted such extension of
time as may be reasonable and in the case of acts or omissions of
Pathway, POCL, the DSS or other suppliers or sub-contractors to
Pathway, Pathway shall be liable. for any and all such costs or
expenses incurred by the Supplier as a direct result of such act or
omission.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOQO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

6.9 Pathway shall at its own expense ensure that all the supplies that the
Supplier requires to perform his obligations under this Agreement and
that Pathway has contracted to supply are provided and delivered by
Pathway in sufficient time in accordance with time or times as agreed
in writing by the parties or specified in this Agreement.

7 ‘NOP _USED
8 PRICES

8.1 Pricing requirements and prices payable for the Supplies are set out
in Schedule D.

9 PAYMENT TERMS

9.1 Following delivery or performance of the Supplies the Supplier shall
submit itemised invoices on a calendar monthly basis in respect of the
Supplies performed during the preceding month quoting the reference
number of this Agreement and where applicable the relevant Pathway
Order number. Settlement of such invoices shall be within thirty (30)
days of either the date of delivery or performance of such supplies or
the date of receipt of such invoices, whichever is the later.

The Supplier shall also submit invoices in accordance with the
provisions of the Standing Payment Profile contained as Schedule D3;
settlement shall be within thirty (30) days of either the date of
receipt of such invoices or the end of the month to which they relate,
whichever is the later.

9.2 NOT USED

9.3 Neither the Supplier nor any sub-contractor or supplier to the
Supplier, nor any other person, shall have a lien on any Supplies or
items owned by or leased to Pathway or the DSS or POCL for any sum due
to the supplier, sub-contractor or supplier to the supplier or other
person, and the Supplier. shall take all reasonable steps to ensure
that the title of Pathway, the DSS or POCL as appropriate and the
exclusion of any such lien are brought to the notice of all sub-
contractors, suppliers’and other persons dealing with such Supplies.

9.4 If Pathway fails to make payment or any part of payment due to the
Supplier, the Supplier shall have the right, at the Supplier’s
absolute discretion, by notice in writing forthwith, to cease
performance of all further obligations under the contract, until full
payment of the outstanding sums have been received. Pathway will have
no claim against the Supplier on account of any cessation by the
Supplier by the aforesaid.

10 NOT_USED
11 PROJECT MANAGEMENT
11.1 schedule E defines the minimum project management and reporting

requirements for the performance of the Supplier’s obligations under
this Agreement.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 6 of 42
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

CoO Ca CoO Co

12

12.1

12.2

12.3

13

13.1

13.2

13.3

13.4

13.5

13.6

13.7

13.8

13.9

CHANGE CONTROL

In the event that either party wishes to propose a Change or
modification, or Pathway fails to fulfil an obligation hereunder, the

provisions of Schedule F shall apply.
NOT USED

NOT USED

STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS

NOT USED

NOT USED

The supplier shall be responsible for ensuring that any of its
employees or other persons performing this Agreement or carrying out
an Order who enter Pathway’s premises or pursuant to this Agreement
the premises of any other supplier or customer of Pathway are suitably
clothed and issued with correct and safe protective equipment, that
they are duly warned of hazards which they may encounter on the
relevant premises and that they adhere to all health and safety rules
and regulations which are applicable from time to time. Pathway shall
be responsible for providing to the Supplier any rules concerning
health or safety before the employees or persons performing this
Agreement are required to enter the said premises.

The Supplier shall not unlawfully discriminate within the meaning and
scope of any law, enactment, order, regulation or other similar
instrument relating to discrimination (whether in relation to race,
gender, religion or otherwise) in employment.

The Supplier shall take all reasonable steps to ensure the observance
of the provisions of Clause 13.4 by all servants, employees, agents
and consultants of the Supplier and all sub-contractors and suppliers
to the supplier.

The supplier shall be responsible for obtaining any import or export
licence or government consents which may be necessary for delivery or
performance of the Supplies, including but not limited to those
required by the UK Export of Goods (Control) Order and the USA Export
Administration Regulations.

If the delivery or performance of the Supplies is delayed by reason of
delay in the granting of any necessary import or export licence (where
the application has been timely and appropriately filed), the delivery
or performance date for the Supplies shall be extended for such period
as may be reasonable in all the circumstances and the parties shall
consult in order to establish such extension.

If application for a necessary import or export licence has been
finally rejected, following the taking of all reasonable steps by way
of representations or appeals, the requirement for the relevant part
of the Supplies or the order for the supplies concerned may be
cancelled without liability, by either party giving written notice to
the other party. :

NOT USED

July

1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 7 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF, NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

13.10 NOT USED

14 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

14.1 vhe supplier shall fully indemnify Pathway and its customers against
all liabilities, losses, costs and expenses including, but not limited
to legal fees, arising from any infringement, or alleged infringement, -
of any patent, copyright, design, trade mark, trade name or other
intellectual property right of any third party by the possession, use,
performance, sale, sub-licensing or other exploitation of the
Supplies.

In the event of any such infringement the Supplier shall promptly
either procure the right for Pathway and its customers to carry on
possessing, using, selling, sub-licensing or otherwise exploiting the
Supplies, or shall modify or replace the Supplies (at no cost or
inconvenience to Pathway or its customers) by alternative products or
services that are agreed by Pathway and that have at least equal
performance and functionality to the infringing Supplies.

14.2 Pathway may copy and grant the DSS and POCL the right to copy any
training material supplied pursuant to this Agreement, for their
internal use in connection with the system being provided by Pathway
pursuant to the Main Agreement (“the Pathway system"). Pathway may
grant the DSS and POCL the right to use the training material to run
training courses related to the Pathway system, using their own
trainers.

Subject to Clause 15, Pathway shall take all reasonable steps
necessary to prevent third parties other than the DSS and PocL using,
copying or otherwise gaining access to the training material.

15. ASSIGNMENT

15.1 Subject to Clause 15.2, neither this Agreement nor any Order shall be
assignable by either party without the written consent of the other
except that Pathway may assign this Agreement or any Order to any
company controlled directly or indirectly by ICL Pathway Limited or
its direct of* ultimate parent company or to any person, firm or
corporation that may purchase or take an assignment of the business
relating to the Supplies or any of them, always provided such
purchaser or assignee shall assume the obligations of Pathway
hereunder.

15.2 In the event that the Main Agreement expires or is terminated, then
this Agreement, and all orders, and any equipment rental or lease
agreements which are entered into by Pathway and the Supplier pursuant
to this Agreement, and any licences of intellectual property rights
granted to Pathway, and all other (non-employment) contracts between
Pathway and the Supplier which are necessary to the performance of
this Agreement, are assignable by Pathway to the DSS or POCL or a
third party selected by the DSS or POCL to replace Pathway and perform
substantially the same functions as Pathway under the Main Agreement
or a replacement thereof.

Furthermore in the event of (expiry”or termination of the Main
Agreement, Pathway may at no cést-to itself, the DSS, POCL or the said
third party release to the DSS or POCL or the said third party a copy —
‘ef all software, data, tools, utilities, documentation and anything
else necessary to provide the Services. Such items shall be subject

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 8 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

to any applicable licence terms, provided that such terms shall not
detract from the DSS’s or POCL’s or the said third party’s ability to
perform such substantially the same functions.

16 OTHER SUPPLIERS TO PATHWAY

16.1 The supplier acknowledges that a variety of suppliers will be
supplying goods and services to Pathway pursuant to the Main
Agreement, and that Pathway will need to integrate such goods and
services with the Supplies in order to fulfil the terms of the Main
Agreement. Such integration may be done directly by Pathway or at
Pathway’s discretion by one or more third parties,. or both.
Additionally Pathway may engage other suppliers for other aspects of
fulfilling the terms of the Main Agreement.

16.2 The supplier shall fully and free of charge co-operate and liaise with
Pathway and with all other relevant suppliers to Pathway in order to
achieve the satisfactory working and performance pursuant to the Main
Agreement of the Supplies and to assist such other suppliers to
Pathway to achieve the satisfactory working and performance pursuant
to the Main Agreement of the products and services that they are
supplying. such co-operation and liaison shall include the provision
of direct access by Pathway and its suppliers to the supplier’s
technical staff.

In the event that such satisfactory working and performance requires a
Change, the provisions of Schedule F shall apply.

17 INSOLVENCY OR LIQUIDATION

17.1 If either party becomes insolvent or goes into liquidation or passes a
resolution for its winding-up (other than solely for the purpose of
amalgamation or reconstruction) or if a receiver, manager or
administrator is appointed in respect-of the whole or any part of
either party’s business then the other party may without liability
cancel this Agreement or any Order summarily by notice in writing to
the other and all supplies and other items at either party’s premises
which are owned by the other party or have been paid for by the other
party shall be returned promptly to that other party and that other
party may enter any premises to recover and remove such Supplies and
other items.

18 CONFIDENTIALITY

18.1 All specifications, patterns, drawings and information supplied by, or
at the expense of, either party shall remain the supplying party’s
property and shall be returned in good order and condition on request
or on termination or expiry or completion of this Agreement or the
relevant order and shall not be copied or used for any purpose other
than as allowed under this Agreement or the Order.

18.2 Each party hereto undertakes not to disclose Confidential Information
obtained from the other unless it is in the public domain or, as
evidenced by its written records, is either already in the party’s
possession without restriction in relation to disclosure prior to
disclosure by the other party, or is received from a third party who
lawfully acquired it and who is under no obligation restricting its
disclosure, or is subsequently independently developed by it by
persons having no access to the Confidential Information of the other
party provided that Pathway may make such disclosure if it is

duly 1996 - COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 9 of 42
co oo oo oo ee gs ees See aa oo ee) oC

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

reasonably required in connection with the maintenance, operation,
supply, potential supply, performance or potential performance of the
Supplies. to its customers; if Pathway makes any such disclosure it
shall inform the Supplier of what it has disclosed.

18.3 The supplier undertakes not to release any public statements
mentioning Pathway or quoting the opinion of any of its employees
regarding Pathway, this Agreement, the Main Agreement, the DSS, POCL
or any of Pathway’s other suppliers or sub-contractors without the
prior written approval of Pathway.

18.4 Except with the written consent of Pathway, the Supplier shall not
make any press announcements or publicise this Agreement or the Main
Agreement in any way.

18.5 The supplier shall ensure the observance of the provisions of Clause
18.4 by all its servants, employees, agents, consultants, sub-
contractors and suppliers.

18.6 Neither Pathway nor the Supplier shall have a right to use the brand
or logo of any Post Office Group member, or of any part of the Dss, or
of the DSS and PocL jointly, or of Pathway, or of the Supplier,
without the other party’s prior written consent. Neither party shall
do anything to injure such logos and brands or the reputation of POocL
or the DsSs or Pathway or the Supplier and, if either party uses such
brands and logos, shall take all reasonable steps to enable the Dss
and POCL to protect their logos and brands and the reputation of POCL
and the Dss and Pathway but in no event less than the steps it would
take in relation to its own logos, brands and reputation.

18.7 This Clause 18 shall not preclude Pathway from referring to the
Supplies in advertising literature and elsewhere as Pathway’s products
or part thereof.

18.8 This clause 18 shall not preclude any disclosure concerning this
Agreement or any Orders hereunder which is required by applicable law,
governmental rule or regulation, or judicial order or process or which
either party considers necessary under applicable competition laws
provided that prior written notice thereof is given to the other
party.

19 PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

19.1 The Supplier’s attention is hereby drawn to the Data Protection act
1984,

19.2 Both parties warrant that they will duly observe all their obligations
under the Data Protection Act which arise in connection with this
Agreement. .

19.3 Section 123 of the Social security Administration Act 1992 shall apply
to this Agreement. It is an offence for any person to disclose any
information obtained while carrying out administrative work where that
information relates to a particular person. Both parties warrant that
they will duly observe all their obligations under the social Security
Administration Act 1992 which arise in connection with this Agreement.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 10 of 42
Ca Co €3 2 Co Co

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

20 SUPPLIER'S PERSONNEL

20.1 ‘The supplier hereby acknowledges and accepts that both the Dss and

POCL reserve the right to refuse to admit:

(a) (in the DSS’s case) to any premises occupied by or on behalf of
the Crown (which terms shall in this clause include all persons
employed or engaged by the Crown and all persons providing
services to the Crown); or

(b) (in PocL’s case) to any premises occupied by or on behalf of any
member of the Post Office Group or to any post office

any person employed or engaged by the Supplier, or by a sub-contractor

or supplier to the supplier, whose admission would be, in the

reasonable opinion of either the DSS or POCL as appropriate,
undesirable.

20.2 If and when directed by Pathway, the Supplier shall provide a list of
the names and addresses of all persons who it is expected may require
admission in connection with the performance of this Agreement to any
premises occupied by or on behalf of the Crown or by or on behalf of
any member of the Post Office Group or to any post office (as
appropriate), specifying the capacities in which they are concerned
with this Agreement and giving such other particulars as Pathway may
reasonably require. The supplier shall comply with any reasonable
directions issued by the designated representative of the DSS, POCL or
Pathway as to which persons may be admitted to such premises and at
what times.

20.3 If and when directed by Pathway, the Supplier shall secure that any
person employed or engaged by the Supplier or by a sub-contractor or
supplier to the Supplier, who is specified in the direction or is one
of .a class of persons who may be so specified, shall sign a statement
that he understands that the Official secrets Acts.1911 to 1989 apply
to him both during the term of and after the expiry or termination of
this Agreement.

20.4 The Supplier’s representatives, engaged within the boundaries of a
Crown or Post Office Group establishment or post office, shall comply
with such rules, regulations and requirements (including those
relating to security arrangements) as may be in force from time to
time for the conduct of personnel when at that establishment or post
office and when outside that establishment or post office.

20.5 NOT USED

20.6 The decision of the DSS or POCL as appropriate as to whether any
person is to be refused admission to any premises occupied by or on
behalf of the crown or the Post Office Group or to a post office (as
appropriate) shall be final and conclusive.

20.7 The Supplier hereby acknowledges and accepts that the DSS or POCL as
appropriate. will be responsible for maintaining in accordance with its
standard security requirements the security of any land or premises
(including temporary buildings) made available. to Pathway or the
Supplier by the DSs or POCL as appropriate. The Supplier shall comply
with all reasonable security requirements of the DSS or POCL as
appropriate while on the premises, and shall procure that all of its
employees, agents, sub-contractors and suppliers shall likewise comply
with such requirements. Pathway shall provide the supplier upon
request copies of the DSS’s and POCL’s written security procedures and
shall use reasonable endeavours to procure from the DSS and POCL upon

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 11 of 42
Co co Co ©) Co eo oo oo eo he oo eas eo ee oo oe) oe as oe oe) 2) 0)

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO]1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

request an opportunity to inspect the DssS’s and POCL’s security
arrangements.

21 LIABILITY AND INSURANCE

21.1 If this Agreement or an order requires that the supplier sends its
employees to Pathway’s premises or the premises of any other supplier
or customer of Pathway for any purpose in connection with this
Agreement or the Order then, notwithstanding any degree of technical
supervision exercised by Pathway or the relevant supplier or customer
er any instructions issued by Pathway or the relevant supplier or
customer, such employees will remain the Supplier’s employees alone.
Accordingly, it is an express condition that the Supplier effects and
maintains in force for the benefit of Pathway, Pathway’s customers and
itself full employer’s liability insurance in respect of such
employees. The Supplier will provide Pathway with written evidence of
such insurance at any time on request and will notify Pathway in
writing of any change in this insurance.

21.2 The Supplier shall indemnify Pathway against liability resulting from
any claim or action in respect of death, illness or bodily injury to
any person caused by or arising out of the supplies or work performed
by the supplier, its employees, agents or sub-contractors under this
Agreement or an Order and the Supplier shall further indemnify Pathway
against any loss of or damage to property caused by the Supplies or by
the act or default of the supplier or such employees, agents or sub-
contractors. .

21.3 The maximum liability of the supplier under this Agreement shall in
relation to death or personal injury be unlimited and in all other
respects be the cost of rectifying the respective default or breach,
the Contract price for that portion of the default or breach up to a
maximum nineteen (19) million pounds sterling. Neither party shall be
liable for consequential loss or loss of revenue or profits.

21.4 The supplier’s personnel shall at all times when on Pathway’s premises
or pursuant to this Agreement on the premises of any other supplier or
customer of Pathway carry an identity pass supplied by the supplier
and approved by Pathway.

21.5 All risk of loss of or damage to any property of the supplier or of
the Supplier’s personnel while at Pathway’s premises or pursuant to
this Agreement at the premises of any other supplier or customer of
Pathway for any reason whatsoever shall be and remain the sole risk
and responsibility of the supplier which shall indemnify Pathway
against all liability in respect of all such loss or damage.

22 AUDIT

22.1 The Supplier shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records
("the Records") of all supplies supplied.

22.2 .The Supplier shall grant or procure the grant to Pathway, the Dss,
POCL, any statutory or regulatory auditors of the DSS and POcL and
their respective authorised agents the right of reasonable access to
the Records and shall provide all reasonable assistance at all times
during the currency of the Main Agreement and for six (6) years after
the creation of the relevant Records for the purposes of carrying out
an audit of the Supplier’s compliance with this Agreement and
Pathway’s compliance with the Main Agreement, including all

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 12 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

activities, charges, prices, performance, security and integrity in
connection therewith. Each party shall bear its own expenses incurred
pursuant to this clause. on termination of this Agreement, the
Supplier shall within a reasonable period to be agreed by the parties
transfer the Records to Pathway. The supplier shall thereafter be
relieved from any further liabilities under this clause in relation to
such Records. Pathway may subsequently, on expiry of the Main
Agreement, transfer the Records to the DSS or POCL or a third party
selected by the DSS or POCL to replace Pathway’ and perform
substantially the same functions as Pathway under the Main Agreement
or a replacement thereof.

22.3 without prejudice to the foregoing, in the event of an investigation
into suspected fraudulent activity or other impropriety by Pathway,
the supplier or any third party, Pathway (save where Pathway is
allegedly party to the suspected fraudulent activity or other
impropriety) the DSS and POCL reserve for themselves, any statutory or
regulatory auditors of the Dss and POcL and their respective
authorised agents or (in the case of DSS) any Crown Body the right of
immediate access to the Records described in Clauses 22.1 and 22.2
above and the Supplier agrees to render all necessary assistance to
the conduct of such investigation at all times during the currency of
the Main Agreement or at any time thereafter.

22.4 Whenever the DSS requires it, and for the purposes of enabling Dss’s
accounting officer to meet his obligations under the Exchequer and
Audit Departments Act 1866, the Supplier:

22.4.1 shall disclose to the DSS whatever information the Dss
requires concerning the prices the Dss has paid or may
have to pay under the Main Agreement; and

22.4.2 shall produce whatever evidence the pDss requires in
support of the information provided under Clause 22.4.1
above.

For the avoidance of doubt, such information shall not include
information concerning the prices paid by Pathway to the Supplier
under this Agreement.

22.5 In connection with this Agreement, the Supplier must not enter into
any other contract or agreement with any person unless that contract
or agreement contains a provision equivalent to Clause 22.4.1 allowing
the Dss to obtain price information and evidence from that person.
This Clause 22.5 does not apply if the supplier has entered into a
contract or agreement following a competitive tendering exercise in
which the Supplier accepted the tender with the lowest price.

22.6 The Supplier is hereby informed that the Dss must use information
provided under Clauses 22.4 and 22.5 for the purposes of the Exchequer
and Audit Departments Act 1866 and for no other purpose.

22.7 The Supplier shall for the duration of this Agreement provide Pathway
at no additional cost with copies of its annual and interim audited
accounts within fourteen (14) days of such accounts having been lodged
at Companies House or its local equivalent to Companies House.

22.8 Without in any way limiting the application of the other clauses of
this Agreement, the Supplier acknowledges that for the purpose of

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 13 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

examining and certifying the Dss’s accounts or for examining (pursuant.
to section 6(1) of the National Audit act 1983) the economy,
efficiency and effectiveness with which the DSS has used its
resources, the Comptroller and Auditor General may examine such
documents as he may reasonably require which are owned, held or are
otherwise within the control of the supplier and may require the
Supplier to produce such oral and written explanations as he considers
necessary.

22.9 The Supplier shall ensure that the terms of its contracts with its
sub-contractors and suppliers require the sub-contractors and
suppliers to permit examination by, and provide explanation to, the
Comptroller and Auditor General in the manner described in Clause
22.8.

22.10 All information obtained by Pathway, the DSS or POCL pursuant to this
clause shall be treated as Confidential Information.

23 CANCELLATION /TERMINATION

23.1 Pathway may cancel any order or any of the supplies in accordance with
Schedule B hereto.

23.2 (a) Notwithstanding the requirements of Schedule B, and where there
has been no breach of contract or default by the supplier,
Pathway may also by giving not less than twelve (12) months’
notice cancel any Order (or part thereof) or any outstanding
Supplies (or part thereof), or terminate this Agreement, or
both, in the event that the Dss or POCL terminates all or part
of the Main Agreement or all or part of Pathway’s obligations
thereunder by giving Pathway not less than twelve (12) months’
notice.

(b) Additionally, also notwithstanding the requirements of schedule
B, and where there has been no breach of contract or default by
the supplier, Pathway may by giving immediate notice cancel any
Order (or part thereof) or any outstanding supplies (or part
thereof), or terminate this Agreement, or both, in either of the
following events: .

(i) that the DSs or POCL terminates all or part of the Main
Agreement or all or part of Pathway’s obligations
thereunder for breach of contract or default by Pathway;

(ii) that Pathway, the DSS or POCL terminates the Main
Agreement, or the Main Agreement lapses, as a result of
failure of Pathway and the DSS and POCL to reach agreement
on those schedules to the Main Agreement that were still
to be agreed when the Main Agreement was signed by
Pathway, the Dss and POCL.

(ce) Additionally, Pathway may at its sole discretion by giving
notice in writing cancel any order (or part thereof) or any
outstanding supplies (or part thereof), or terminate this
Agreement, or both, where such cancellation or termination is
greater than the relevant maximum percentage (established by
reference to the cancellation or termination date relative to
the lead time) defined by Clause B1.4 of Schedule B. In such
event any compensation payable by Pathway will be subject to
written agreement between the parties, or where agreement cannot
be reached within one (1) month of the date of the notice from

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 14 of 42
CoQ CoO co @m Co oS hucmlhUuo

]

i

C7 Co co co hued hl

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0°15/07/96

Pathway, Pathway will pay compensation to the supplier in
accordance with the provisions of Clauses 23.2.2 to 23.2.4.

(d) A notice given to the Supplier by Pathway pursuant to Clause
23.2(a) or 23.2(b) or 23.2(c) is hereinafter referred to as a
“cancellation/Termination Notice".

23.2.1 In the event of a Cancellation/Termination Notice being
given by Pathway, the supplier shall take all reasonable
steps to:

(a) cancel all capital and recurring cost commitments;

(b) arrange more favourable financing terms;

(c) terminate all contracts with sub-contractors and
suppliers on the best possible terms; and

{d) reduce labour costs by the redeployment or release
of staff.

23.2.2 In the event of a Cancellation/Termination Notice being
given by Pathway (save where the Cancellation/Termination
Notice is given pursuant to Clause 23.2(c) and Pathway and
the supplier have agreed on the compensation to be paid by
Pathway), the Supplier shall within one month (or longer
where agreed in writing by Pathway and the supplier) after
the date of the notice provide Pathway with a statement
showing the sum of:

(a) its unavoidable direct costs that will be or have
been incurred pursuant to this Agreement after the
effective date of termination of this Agreement or
order; minus

(b) the reasonable increase in the Supplier’s inventory
value resulting from the Supplier keeping rather
than supplying supplies to Pathway; plus

(c) reasonable cash flow and storage costs associated
with servicing the increased inventory; plus

(d) the unrecovered portion of any direct costs incurred
pursuant to this Agreement before the effective date
of termination of this Agreement or Order. such
unrecovered portion shall be no more than would have
been recovered had this Agreement been performed
without cancellation/termination, having due regard
to the scale of Pathway’s operations under the Main
Agreement, the level of usage, trended growth (or
shrinkage), and such other factors as are relevant.

Such statement shall show the profile of such costs on a

month-by~month basis. The direct costs shown on such

statement shall be net of the savings and cost reductions

occasioned by the steps taken pursuant to Clause 23.2.1,

and shall exclude all profit margins and overhead

recoveries of the supplier.

The validity and correctness of such statement shall be

subject to agreement between Pathway and the Supplier.

Pathway shall have the right to audit the supplier’s

internal records and information (confidential or

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 15 of 42
C34 Co Co Co Co Co

ca co co

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

otherwise) in order to satisfy itself of the validity and
correctness of the statement.

23.2.3 In the event of a Cancellation/Termination Notice being
given by Pathway, Pathway shall within thirty (30) days
after receipt of a termination sum from the DSS and POCL
(if any), or within thirty (30) days after the effective
date of termination of this Agreement or Order (whichever
occurs later) pay the Supplier a sum equal to the net
present value of the cost profile shown on any agreed
valid and correct statement submitted by the supplier
pursuant to Clause 23.2.2 within the period prescribed by
Clause 23.2.2 ("the prescribed period") for submission of
such statement. Pathway will be under no obligation to
pay the Supplier in respect of any statement submitted
after the prescribed period, or in respect of any costs
not contained in an agreed valid and correct statement
submitted during the prescribed period.

The annual effective discount rate to be used for
calculating the net present value shall be five (5) per
cent over the Barclays Bank Base Rate in force at the time
Pathway makes the payment.

Upon receipt by the Supplier of the aforementioned net
present value Pathway will have no further liability to
the supplier.

23.2.4 Pathway shall not in any event be liable to pay under the
provisions of Clause 23.2.3 any sum which, when taken
together with any sums paid or due or becoming due to the
Supplier under this Agreement, shall exceed the total net
present value (calculated using the rate referred to in
Clause 23.2.3) of the sums due to the Supplier had this
Agreement or the order been performed without
cancellation/termination, having due regard to the scale
of Pathway’s operations under the Main Agreement, the
level of usage, trended growth (or shrinkage), and such
other factors as Pathway deems relevant.

Pathway shall not in any event be liable to pay under the
provisions of Clause 23.2.3 any sum which is greater than
that which it would be liable to pay were cancellation to
be made under the terms of Clause B1l.4 of Schedule B.

23.2.5 The Supplier shall ensure that any contract it enters into
with a sub-contractor or supplier in connection with or
for the purposes of this Agreement shall provide it (the
Supplier) with rights corresponding to those pertaining to
Pathway under this Clause 23.2.

23.3 Pathway may also forthwith by notice in writing to the supplier cancel
any Order or part thereof or the requirement for the relevant part of
the Supplies and/or terminate this Agreement if the supplier is in
breach of this Agreement or any Order and fails to remedy such breach
within thirty (30) days of Pathway’s written demand.

23.4 Pathway reserves the right to immediately terminate this Agreement
without further liability to the supplier in the event of any of the
following occurrences: .

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 16 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

(a) the Supplier is acquired by a third party through a merger or
amalgamation; or

(b) the acquisition of a majority holding or significant controlling
interest in the Supplier by one or more parties; or

(c) NOT USED

Pathway will not exercise its rights under Clause 23.4 where Supplier
has notified Pathway in advance of the proposed acquisition or change
of control, and Pathway has agreed to it in writing, and the
acquisition or change of control takes place as proposed.

23.5 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement the following
obligations will survive termination of this Agreement:

(a) The obligations of the parties under Clause 14 "Intellectual
Property Rights", Clause 18 "Confidentiality", Clause 19
“Protection of Personal Data", Clause 21 “Liability and

Insurance", Clause 22 "Audit" and Clause 23 "Cancellation/
Termination";

(b) All other rights and/or obligations under this Agreement which
are expressed to apply after termination or which are by
necessary implication to apply after termination.

23.6 The Supplier may also terminate this Agreement by giving Pathway not
less than twelve (12) months notice, such notice shall not be
effective earlier than 3lst December 1998, or until six (6) months
after Pathway has completed the roll-out phase of the Main Agreement,
whichever is the later.

23.7 Pathway may at any time at its sole discretion terminate the provision
of the Management of Change Service. To effect this termination
Pathway shall inform the supplier that it is not satisfied with such
Service and/or is considering terminating it, and shall give its
reasons. The supplier shall then have thirty (30) days in which to
endeavour to improve the Service or persuade Pathway not to terminate.
At the end of such thirty day period Pathway may then at its sole
discretion terminate the Service, either summarily or by giving up to
thirty (30) days notice. on terminating, Pathway’s sole liability
shall be to pay the agreed Service charge for a further thirty (30)
days beyond the effective date of such termination.

24 SET-OFF

24.1 If at any time any sum of money becomes recoverable by or due to
Pathway from the Supplier under or in connection with this Agreement
(including orders placed hereunder) or any breach thereof by the
Supplier or under or in connection with any other agreement (whether
of sale or purchase or on any other account) between Pathway and the
Supplier, Pathway shall be entitled, without prejudice to any other
rights or remedies of Pathway by law, to deduct such sum from any
amount then due, or which may at any time thereafter become due, to
the Supplier under this Agreement (including orders placed hereunder)
or under any other agreement between Pathway and the supplier.

25 GENERAL

25.1 This Agreement constitutes and expresses the entire agreement between
the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. The provisions of
this Agreement apply to the exclusion of any other standard terms’ and
conditions of Pathway or of the supplier.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 17 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

25.2 This Agreement shall in all respects be deemed to be made under, and
interpreted in accordance with, English law, and the parties. hereby
submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English courts.

25.3 No provision hereof shall be deemed waived and no breach or default
excused unless such waiver or excuse is in writing signed by the party
issuing it.

25.4 This Agreement may not be varied or amended in any way except in
writing signed on behalf of Pathway and the supplier.

25.5 The rights and remedies of Pathway under this Agreement are cumulative
and without prejudice and in addition to any rights or remedies which
it may have at law or in equity.

25.6 The headings in this document are inserted for convenience only and
shall not constitute a part of or be referred to in its
interpretation,

For and on behalf of Pathway

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 18 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

CONTENTS OF SCHEDULES

SCHEDULE A SPECIFICATION OF SUPPLIES
Al SPECIFICATION
Al.1 specification
Appendix 1 Work Packages

Training Event

Specifications version 6.0 15 July 1996
Appendix 2 Pathway Implementation Plan Version 5.0

16 april 1996

Appendix 3 Assumptions and Dependencies version 4.0

15 July 1996.
Al.2 Acceptance Procedure
Al.3 Mot Used
Al.4 Not Used
a2 QUALITY
A2.1 Quality Assurance
A2.2 Risks
A2.3 Not Used
a3 NOT USED
aa NOT USED
AS NOT USED
AG NOT USED
a7 MAXINUM SIZE AND FREQUENCY LIMITS

SCHEDULE B PLACING OF ORDERS
Bl ORDERS

SCHEDULE C NOT USED

SCHEDULE D PRICING TERMS
D1 PRICING

D2 PRICES
D3 STANDING PAYMENT PROFILE
D4 GENERAL

SCHEDULE E PROJECT MANAGEMENT

SCHEDULE F CHANGE CONTROL
Fl SCOPE

F2 PRINCIPLES
F3 PROCEDURE

SCHEDULE G PERFORMANCE MEASURES

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

page 19 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

SCHEDULE A - SPECIFICATION OF SUPPLIES

Al SPECIFICATION

Al.1 specification

As attached documents, under the heading of Pathway/Peritas Purchase

Agreement Ref no. PEQO1, Version 6.0 15th July 1996:

- Appendix 1 Work Packages & Training Event Specifications
Version 6.0 15th July 1996

- Appendix 2 Pathway Implementation Plan Version 5.0 16th April
1996

- Appendix 3 Assumptions and Dependencies Version 4.0 15th July
1996.

Al.2 Acceptance Procedure

(a) Acceptance of Hardware

Hardware is deemed to be automatically Accepted on completion of
delivery. Pathway may nevertheless within a reasonable period
of time reject such Accepted supplies by giving notice in
writing in the event that they are found to be defective or not
to conform to their’ Specification; in the event of such
rejection, the Supplier shall urgently and with all possible
speed replace or repeat the relevant Supplies. Rejection and
subsequent Acceptance of the replacement or repeated supplies
shall not prejudice any right Pathway may have to damages or to
terminate this Agreement.

Pathway shall not be obliged to pay for any such rejected
Supplies. Rejection shall cause title, risk and property in the
relevant Supplies to revert to the Supplier, who shall collect
and take them away.

Acceptance of Supplies shall occur notwithstanding that Pathway
does not notify the supplier of such Acceptance; Pathway shall
not be obliged to notify the Supplier of such Acceptance.

(b) Acceptance of Courses Being Developed by the Supplier

The supplier will develop the training programme in accordance
with the specifications accepted for inclusion in the Pathway
proposal document.

On completion of each event within the program the Supplier will
offer the event for review by means of a dry run event to
attendees nominated by Pathway, the delegates will represent the
appropriate mix of Pathway, DSS and POCL personnel as determined
by Pathway in accordance with the target audience defined for
the event.

Any factual errors/omissions identified by the audience will be
corrected.

The review chairperson (to be appointed by Pathway) will'minute .
the actions necessary for the event to meet all its defined

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 20 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

objectives, and identify those objectives met and those which
the event failed to meet.

Should the event not meet any of the defined objectives then
Pathway may require the event to be submitted for a further dry
run. Should the event have satisfied some of its objectives then
the supplier will be required to provide evidence that the
designated actions have been implemented.

The dry run date will be defined with not less than 2 weeks
notice and the necessary equipment will be supplied by Pathway
not less than one week prior to the event.

Once the course has met all its defined objectives Pathway shall
sign them off. This shall constitute Acceptance.

If Pathway nevertheless wishes the Supplier to change the course
content, then the provisions of schedule F shall apply.

Courses once Accepted do not require further Acceptance each
time they are delivered.

Al.3 NOT USED

Al.4 NOT USED

A2 QUALITY
A2.1 Quality Assurance

(a) The Supplier will assume overall responsibility for the quality
of the Supplies.

(b) The Supplier will employ a Quality Management System, at a
minimum conforming to all relevant requirements of BS EN ISO
9001 : 1994 and revisions thereto, throughout the duration of
this Agreement, covering all operations carried out under this
Agreement. This system will be in place within one (1) month of
the date of this Agreement. The Quality Management System will
be documented in the Supplier’s Quality Manual which will be
available to Pathway on request.

(ec) The Supplier will produce a Quality Plan as a part of the
Project Management Plan (defined in Schedule E) within one (1)
month of the date of this Agreement that will describe the
organisation, the methods’ and the standards by which the
requirements of this Agreement will be carried out. The Quality
Plan will be available for regular review by Pathway.

(d) The Supplier will appoint a Quality Manager responsible for the
application of the Quality Management system and for auditing
achieved quality against the Quality Plan.

(e) Pathway may audit, and may permit POCL and the Dss to audit, the
quality system applicable to any operation carried out by the
Supplier pursuant to delivering or performing the Supplies, and
the supplier shall procure that its suppliers and sub-
contractors shall grant Pathway the same right of audit in
respect of their operations. Audits may take place at any time
during normal working hours provided at least two (2) days’

guly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 21 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEQO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

prior written notice is given by Pathway. Such audits may at
Pathway’s option include the witnessing of, or participation in,
tests and inspections of the supplies whether completed or not.
The supplier will promptly take appropriate corrective action
with regard to any non-conformances identified, and will within
thirty (30) days after the audit supply Pathway with details of
corrective action taken.

(f) Where applicable the Supplier will ensure that all electrostatic
sensitive devices are at all times, as applicable, manufactured,
stored, packed, repaired, installed, transported and handled
under electrostatically safe conditions as defined by a

recognised standard. Pathway has the right of veto over the
standard to be used, such right not to be unreasonably
exercised.
A2.2 Risks
The Supplier will produce and maintain a Risk Analysis and Management
Plan which will be available for regular review by Pathway, and will
monitor and manage risk in a formal and structured manner. Risks and
risk mitigations which could affect the performance of the sSupplier’s
obligations under this Agreement, or the performance of the
obligations of other suppliers and sub-contractors to Pathway pursuant
to the Main Agreement, or the performance of Pathway’s obligations
under the Main Agreement, will be reviewed at the progress meetings
that will take place pursuant to Clause E4 of Schedule E.
A2.3 NOT USED
a3 NOT USED
aa NOT USED
aS NOT USED
a6 NOT_USED
AT MAXIMUM SIZE AND FREQUENCY LIMITS
A7.1 Pursuant to Clause 3.1 of this Agreement, the maximum limits to the
size and frequency of each training event (other than the awareness
events) are as follows: -
ly Limits
The maximum number of post office personnel trained per day 216
The maximum number of training courses delivered per day 36
The maximum number of awareness events per day 3
variance to maximum number of training courses subject to
Pathway providing additional systems (10 days notice required) 40
Variance to maximum number of training courses subject to
Pathway providing additional systems (20 days notice required) 50
Weekly Limi:
The maximum number of post office personnel trained per week 1000
The maximum number of training courses delivered per week 180
The maximum number of awareness events per week 12
July, 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 22 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

variance to maximum number of training courses subject to
Pathway providing additional systems (10 days notice required) 200
Variance to maximum number of training courses subject to
Pathway providing additional systems (20 days notice required) 225

In-post-office support & competence tests including remedial 1050
Limits 188i! with course limit variance (pro r: icing in the
order of a 30% surcharge per item over the standard limits shown
ibove)

The maximum number of post office ‘personnel trained per week 1200
The maximum number of training courses delivered per week 216
The maximum number of awareness events per week 14

Variance to maximum number of training courses subject to

Pathway providing additional systems (10 days notice required) 240
variance to maximum number of training courses subject to

Pathway providing additional systems (20 days notice required) 270

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IM CONFIDENCE page 23 of 42

eo €9 (9) C3 & & ©€3o Co-oo co

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

SCHEDULE B - PLACING OF ORDERS

Bl ORDERS

Bl.1 All orders will contain the following information and will be signed
by an authorised signatory of Pathway:

(a) Identity of Pathway department, the authorised Pathway
signatory, the Order number (where applicable) and the number of
this Agreement;

(b) Identity and quantity of the supplies including applicable
Specification;

(c) Delivery or performance date required by Pathway;

(d) Consignment address or address where the Supplies should be
performed;

qe) Price;

(f) Shipping instruction;

(g) I Invoicing address.

Bl.2 The Supplier will return to the authorised Pathway signatory the
acknowledgement copy of each Order (written or electronic), duly
approved by the supplier, and will use its best efforts to do so no
later than seven (7) days from the date of receipt of the order.

Bl.3 The lead time for delivery or performance of the Supplies will be
thirty (30) days unless the Supplier accepts an earlier date.

B1l.4 Pathway may by written notice given to the supplier at any time
reschedule the delivery or performance dates of the supplies in
accordance with the following table:

Minimum notice Cancellation Fee Payable

(except where the Supplier on Per Event Basis

accepts an earlier date)

14 Days Notice or Less 100% of Event, Price

15-19 Days notice 50% of Event Price

20-24 Days notice 30% of Event Price

25-29 Days. notice 15% of Event Price

30 Days notice No cost

The parties shall review the practicality and reasonableness of this

table after the services have started to be performed, with a view to

changing to accommodate the needs of the Supplier for certainty and

Pathway for flexibility. If the parties cannot agree on a change

should one be sought by the Supplier, then any incremental costs borne

by the Supplier as a result of not changing will be factored into the

pricing and open book accounting arrangements defined in Schedule D.

B1.5 NOT USED

B1l.6 NOT USED

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 24 of 42
{HO Ds Ones a OO } ©

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0:15/07/96

H SCHEDULE C

NOT_USED

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 25 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

SCHEDULE D - PRICING TERMS
pl PRICING

Dl.1 The prices for the Supplies are contained in Clause D2 and will in the
event of conflict supersede any prices appearing in any other
Schedule.

D1.2 NOT USED
D1.3 NOT USED
D1.4 NOT USED

D1.5 The Supplier warrants that at the date of this Agreement the prices
set out in this Schedule do not exceed those charged to any other
customer of the Supplier purchasing the Supplies, or items similar or
comparable thereto. If at any time the supplier offers lower prices
to any other customer for the supplies or such similar’ or comparable
items, then such lower prices will be charged to Pathway on subsequent
invoices of the supplier.

D1.6 NOT USED
D1.7 NOT USED
D1.8 NOT USED

D1.9 NOT USED

D1.10 Open Book Accounting

(a) The Supplier has agreed to "Open Book Accounting”. The total
training programme up to the end of the roll-out phase or to
31st December 1998 (whichever is later), as priced in Clause D2,
is anticipated to generate a margin of fifteen percent (15%),
measured against the Ssupplier’s direct variable costs and
directly attributable overheads (together referred to as “the
Supplier’s Costs").

Within three (3) months of the end of the year in which the
roll-out phase completes, or by 3lst March 1999, whichever is
later, the Supplier will inform Pathway of the actual margin
that it has achieved under this Agreement up to the end of the
roll-out phase or 31st December 1998 (whichever is later).

If the supplier’s Costs are such that .the revenue from this
Agreement up to the end of the roll-out phase or to 3lst
December 1998 (whichever is later) generates a lower margin than
15%, no additional payment shall be due from Pathway.

If the supplier’s Costs are such that the revenue from this
Agreement up to the end of the roll-out phase or to 3ist
December 1998 (whichever is later) generates a higher margin
than 15%, the supplier will pay Pathway a rebate in respect of
the lower supplier’s Costs incurred during that period, at the
rate of 80 pence in the pound sterling.

(b) Pathway may audit the Supplier’s books to check the actual
achieved margin from this Agreement. such audits may be

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 26 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

Dl.11

D1.12

conducted once a year, starting three (3) months after the end
of the year in which the roll-out phase completes, or 1st April

. 1999, whichever is later. Each such audit will relate to the
preceding financial year or the time since the last auditted
period (or in the case of the first audit, the time since the
Service started), whichever is longer. Pathway may at its
option use an independent firm of auditors to assist it or act
on its behalf.

In the event Pathway wishes to carry out an audit, Pathway shall

give five (5) working days notice in writing of its intention to

do so. The Supplier shall:

qi) give Pathway and its auditors all reasonable access to
its relevant commercial information, whether confidential
or not, and shall allow Pathway to copy and take away
whatever documentation Pathway wishes; and

(ii) give Pathway and its auditors access to and private
office accommodation and facilities at the supplier’s
premises at all reasonable times during the audit; and

(iii) make relevant members of its staff (of all levels of
seniority) available to Pathway at all reasonable times
during the audit for the purposes of assisting in the
audit by answering questions, providing clarification and
providing explanations. The Supplier shall not be
obliged to say anything which it feels may prejudice its
position in the event of a dispute with Pathway.

(¢) In the event that the audit results in a finding that the
Supplier’s actual achieved margin under this Agreement is higher
than declared to Pathway and higher than 15%:

(iy the Supplier will immediately pay Pathway double the
amount of the rebate that it would have paid had the
correct margin been declared; and

(ii) if the difference between the actual and declared margin
is material, the Supplier shall pay Pathway Pathway’s
reasonable costs incurred in conducting the audit; and

(iii) if the difference between the actual and declared margin
is material, Pathway may terminate this Agreement for
default; if Pathway exercises this termination option, it
shall do so no later than thirty (30) days after the
issue of the audit report.

Prices will not increase before the end of the roll-out phase of the
Main Agreement.

It is anticipated that prices will change after the end of the roll-
out phase of the Main Agreement during the life of this Agreement in
line with market forces and as a result of volume economies. subject
to the operation of the formula shown below in this Clause D1.12,
prices applicable after the end of the roll-out phase are anticipated
to generate a margin of fifteen per cent (15%) measured against the
Supplier’s direct variable costs and directly attributable overheads,
and shall not be set at a level that is likely to generate a higher
margin than 15%.

After the end of the roll-out phase, prices will not increase by more

than the change in the UK Government Retail Price Index

("RPI")

measured over the preceding twelve (12) months or, where there has

been a previous price review, the period since the previous

price

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 27 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEQO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

review; where this indexation indicates a price reduction, prices will
be correspondingly reduced.

If the Supplier’s Costs (as defined in Clause D1l.10) have not
increased by as much as RPI over the relevant measurement period, the
prices following the review will be subject to a ceiling in accordance
with the following formula:

NP = (1-((1-_1¥ACC&_ ) x 0.8)) x (1+ARPIC%) x P
1+ARPICS
where: NP = new price (i.e. price to be charged as a

result of the price review)

actual percentage change in the Supplier’s

Costs (expressed as a decimal); a positive

figure indicates a cost increase, a negative

a cost reduction

ARPICS = allowable RPI percentage change (expressed as
a decimal), i.e. RPI-0%; a positive figure
indicates an increase, a negative a reduction

P = price prior.to the price review.

ACCE

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 28 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

D2 PRICES
As detailed in spreadsheet pocl5.xlw version 5.5 15/07/96. '

D3 STANDING PAYMENT PROFILE
As detailed in spreadsheet pocl5.xlw version 5.5 15/07/96.

D4 GENERAL
For the avoidance of . doubt, Pathway will not pay any charges other
than the per event charges identified in pocl5.xlw version 5.5, for
each event that takes place pursuant to an order, and the regular
charges shown in Schedule D3 of pocl5.xlw version 5.5. In particular,

Pathway makes no commitment to the quantity of events for which it
will place orders.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 29 of 42
Shed D

SCHEDULE D: PRICING

This schedule must be read in conjunction with
pages 2-16 of POCLS.xIw, of which it forms a part

2.2 Training management system

2.3 Training help desk

2.4 Training admin
Training admin

2.5 Office accom.
Other costs

Oct-Dec '96
Jan '97 Onwd

3 Pre roll out training
3.1 User acceptance
3.2 Development
3.2 Stroud training
3.3 Pathway training

4 Development
. 8 User education delivery

6 Delivery
6.1 Gear up

6.2 Crown Counter
6.3 Small/medium PO
6.4 Follow up

6.5 Sys Manager

6.6 Help desk

6.7 POCL TTT

6.8 BATTT

6.9 BA operations

6.10 Back up team
Remedial team

7 Accomodation
Venues
Venue inspection

Strategic focus groups

Impact anal w/shops

Price payable on completion of each course. Total:
Payable as incurred, against individual order. Total:

POCL/Pathway
Schedule D
poci5.xiw
ersion 5.5 15/07/96
1 Change Management
1.1 Programme manager Price per week
1.2 Faciltated events Price per event
Imp focus groups
Business modelling
EFOM events
Testing w/shops
1.3 Event development
1.4 Communication plan
2 Programme Management
2.1 Project team Jun-Sept '96 Price per week
Project team Oct-Dec '96 . Price per week
Project team Jan-Mar '97 Price per week
Project team Apr '97 Onwd_ Price per week

Price

Price per week

Price per week

Price per week

Price per month

As incurred, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per event
Price payable on completion of each course. Total:
Price per event
Price per event

Price payable on completion of each course: Total:

Price per event

Payable as incurred, invoiced monthly. Total
Price per event

Price per event

Price per day

Price per event

For bespoke events price per day
Price per event

Price per event

Price per event

Price per event

Price per week

Price per week

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

£
2,500.00

900.00
725.00
725.00
725.00
725.00
725.00

74,400.00

446,550.00

4,530.00
6,529.00
6,909.00
8,528.00
15,656.00
9,120.00
2,755.00
6,175.00
14,500.00

426.80
20,208.00
426.80
400.80

105,810.00

1,252.51

188,500.00
451.80
451.80
388.80
840.60
420.30
628.80

2,730.00
1,272.00
1,042.00,
5,832.00
10,104.00

Priced at cost to Peritas plus 15% markup to cover administration

Price per month

Page 1

7,297.33
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
Costs
POCL/Pathway Costs SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Base data re costs
lpocl5.xlw
Version 5.5 15/07/96
Permanent staff per week Subtract Subtract Add
Staff Grade ICLE Accom Subsid. Rew Subsid. Total Daily
Equiv Rate Allow. Allow. Cost per week Rate
Management Con Peritas 2500.00 500.00)
Senior Con Peritas 2000.00 400.00}
Con Peritas 1625.00 325.00)
Training Manager ms 1818.00 175.00. 75.00 1568.00 200.00 1768.00 353.60
Logistics Manager m6 1569.00 175.00 75.00 1319.00 300.00 1619.00 323.80)
Training Team leader 18/19 1381.00 175.00 75.00 1131.00 300.00 1431.00 286.20
Project Control Officer 18/19 1381.00 175.00 75.00 1131.00 200.00 1331.00 266.20)
Evaluation Officer m6 1569.00 175.00 75.00 1319.00 300.00 1619.00 323.80
15 1066.00 175.00 75.00 816.00 816.00 163.20)
Temporary staff per week _ Subtract Subtract Add
Staff Grade ICLE Accom Subsid. Raw Subsid. Total Daily
Equiv Rate Allow. Allow. Cost per week Rate
m4 2401.00 175.00 75.00 2151.00 2151.00 430.20]
Awareness consultant mS 2020.00 175.00 75.00 1770.00 400.00 2170.00 434.00]
Consultant developer m6 1755.00 175.00 75.00 1505.00 200.00 1705.00 341.00)
Courseware developer 18/19 1534.00 175.00 75.00 1284.00 200.00 1484.00 296.80)
Trainer 18/19 1534.00 175.00 75.00 1284.00 400.00 1684.00 336.80
Programmer 18/19 1534.00 175.00 75.00 1284.00 200.00 1484.00 296.80)
16/17 1316.00 175.00 75.00 1066.00 1066.00 213.20)
15 1184.00 175.00 75.00 934.00 934.00 186.80)
Notes For Peritas's Purposes Only
NB see R Cooper memo of 6/9/95
1 All permanent staff priced at 12 month rate
2 All temporary staff priced at <6month rate.
3 Office Accomodation is separate work package
Therefore R Cooper suggested allowance is subtracted
4 All specific subsistence rates per SLK estimate
Therefore R Cooper suggested allowance is subtracted
Non matrix staff Subtract Subtract Add
Grade ICLE Accom Subsid. Raw Subsid. Total Daily
Equiv Rate Allow. Allow. Cost per week Rate
Clerical support 380.00 0.00 380.00 76.00
Helpdesk support 475.00 0.00 475.00 95.00
Helpdesk supervisor 570.00 0.00 570.00 114.00
Training administrator 570.00 0.00 570.00 114.00
Van hire 200.00 60.00 260.00 52.00
Page 2
i Vols
‘ POCL/Pathway Vols SCHEDULE D: PRICING
I Base data re volumetrics
pocl5.xlw
I Version 5.5 15/07/96
User Awareness POCL BA Total Notes
I Volume of users 67021 500 67521
Occupancy see note 50
I No of sessions 671 10 681
POCL awareness Occupancy of 90 in urban areas
I Occupancy of 50 in rural areas
Occupancy of 30 in Highlands/islands
POCI awareness is Sub Postmaster and POCL staff only.
I Post office Staff per Workload Brief Ver 5.3
1 Crown PO
Counter managers 763 (= No of Crown PO)
I 7719
Retail assistants 729
Total crown staff 9211
I Sys Manager trng 2289 Counter trng 6922
(3 from each Crown)
Occupancy 6 12 per day
I No courses 382 577
Duration 2 1
Days 764 -577
i remainder get std course 6922
2 Sub PO
I 38938
18872
Total “ng 57810
I Occupancy 6
No courses 9635
Duration 1
I Days 9635
3 Follow up
No of users 67021
I Less sys Man attendees 2289
Total 64732
Visits per day 5
I No days 12947
4 materials
QRG 1 percopy Mono
I Handout/workbook 8 percopy Mono
i Page 3

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
POCL/Pathway whbs

Work breakdown structur:
ipocl5.xlw

wbs

SCHEDULE D: PRICING

e€

Version 5.5 15/07/96

Timetable

ITT issued
BAFO

Letter of intent

lwp1
iChange management
User Education Plan

Communications Plan

iwp2

Programme management

Prog mgt
Software devel.
Admin/help desk
Office accom.

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

28/02/96
23/03/96

31/05/96

jwp4

Course development

iwp3

[User acceptance
Stroud
Pathway staff

Pre roll out training

iwp5

User

education delivery

wp6

Course delivery
Gear up
Delivery

Systems (Pathway)

iwp7

jAccomodation

User awareness
Training

wp8

Maintenance
Prog Mgt
change Mgt
User Educ.
Comms Plan
New starters

Updates

Page 4
iy

FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp!
POCL/Pathway wp1 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Change mgt
lpocl5.xlw
[Version 5.5 15/07/96
Pre Post Total
Change Programme manager
(Charged as per Schedule D3) Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
date date week

Change Programme Mngr Jun-96 Dec-98 2500.00 134 335000
Administrator Jun-96 Dec-98 570.00 fe) O
Total : 335000)
Price per week 2500
Facilitated events Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders) date date day
(Strategic focus groups Jun-96 Aug-96 900.00 3 2700
Imp focus groups Jun-96 Aug-96. 725.00 10 7250
Business modelling Jun-96 Aug-96 725.00 4 2900
EFOM events Jun-96 Aug-96 725.00 10 7250
Impact analysis w/shops Jun-96 Aug-96 725.00 10 7250
Testing w/shops Jun-96 Aug-96 725.00 10 7250

ie)
Total 34600 34600

The Services contained in 1. will be charged monthly if ordered, except for the Strategic Focus Groups, which
will be charged in accordance with Schedule D3.

Event development Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
date___date day
Strategic focus groups Jun-96 400.0014 5600
Imp focus groups Jun-96 400.00 35 14000
Business modelling Jun-96 400.00 17 6800
EFOM events Jun-96 400.00 © 25 10000
Impact analysis w/shops Jun-96 400.00 35 14000
Testing w/shops Jun-96 400.00 10 4000
Comms & Educ plan Jun-96 400.00 50 20000
Total 186 74400 74400

Communication Plan Start End Rate ty Price Price Price

(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders) date date

Pilot and Development Phase 1 Jun-96 Dec-98 50700

Education Phase 2 Jun-96 Dec-98 64350

Training Phase 3 Jun-96 Dec-98 58500

Implementation Phase 4 Jun-96 Dec-98 195000

Management Phase 5  Jun-96 Dec-98 78000

Total : 446550 446550)

Total 890550
Page 5
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp2
IPOCL/Pathway wp2 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Programme Management
lpocl5.xlw
Version 5.5 15/07/96
Pre Post Total
2.1 Programme Mgt team Start End Rate ty Price Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) date date week
Project manager Jan-96  May-96 884 20 17680
Project manager Jun-96 Dec-98 1768 134 236912
Training Team leader Jun-96 Dec-98 1431 134 191754
Training Team leader Jan-96 May-96 1431 20 28620
Logistics manager Oct-96 Dec-98 1619 117 189423
Evaluation Officer Apr-97  Dec-98 1619 91 147329
Project Control Officer Jun-96 Dec-98 1331 134 178354
Clerical support Oct-96 Dec-98 380 117 44460
Clerical support Jan-97  Dec-98 380 104 39520
Total 46300 1027752 1074052
Price per week 7670 average
Price per week 4530 Jun-Sept '96
Price per week 6529 Oct-Dec '96
Price per week 6909 Jan-Mar ‘97
Price per week 8528 Apr.'97 Onwd
Notes
PM at half price (50% util) until June 1996
Pre Post Total
2.2 Imp Trg Mgt System Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) date date
‘Source code for CBS 2300
Programmer Feb-96 May-96 1484 9 13356
Total 15656 15656,
Note
9 weeks is 5 weeks Coding, 2 weeks testing & 2 weeks integration
‘Pre Post Total
2.3 Training Help Desk No Start End Rate Oty Price Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) off date date
[Administrator 16 Apr-97  Dec-98 570.00 91 829920 829920)
Price per week 9120
Notes

9.00am till 10.00pm weekday; 9.00 am till 5.00pm Sat.

Page 6
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp2
Pre Post Total
2.4 Course Booking No Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) off date date
Technical Support 1 Oct-96 Dec-98 475 117 55575
[Supervisor 1 Oct-96  Dec-98 570 117 66690
Administrators 3 Oct-96 Dec-98 570 117 200070
Administrators 6 Jan-97  Dec-98 570 104 355680
Total O 678015 678015
Price per week 2755 Oct-Dec '96
Price per week 6175 Jan '97 Onwd
Service 8.30am till 10.30pm
2.5 Office Accomodation Pre Post Total
(Charged as per Schedule D3) No Start End Price Price Price
- off date date
Office space Oct-36 Dec-98 391500
IT equipment Oct-96 Dec-98 59000
stationery Oct-96 Dec-98 7200
Headsets Oct-96 Dec-98 6000
Postage Oct-96  Dec-98 77040
iComms/telephone Oct-96 Dec-98 128640
Total 669380 669380,
3267023
Office space . sq ft 2900
Price 60
Annual 174000
Month 14500
Quarter 43500
Total 391500
Page 7
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp3
POCL/Pathway wp3 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Pre roll out training
ipoclS.xlw
ersion 5.5 15/07/96
Pre Post Total
3.1 User Acceptance No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
Trial Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer Dec-96 = Jan-97 336.80 16.00 5388.8
Materials 96.00 Dec-96° Jan-97 15.00 1440
Updates 0.00 Dec-96 Jan-97 336.80 6 2020.8
Materials 600.00 Dec-96 Jan-97 9.00 5400
Total ie} 8849.6 8849.6
Price per event 426.80
Notes
1 Assume 48 counter positions (2 staff per position)
2 Occupancy 6 on 1 day course
3 Total 16 days. User awareness event also required
4 Incl Release 1 and Release 2
5 Location is Tower Bridge
3.2 Stroud Go Live No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
Off date date
Trainer: development Aug-96 336.80 60.00 20208
(Charged as per Schedule D3)
Trainer: delivery Sep-96 Sep-96 336.80 10.00
Materials 60.00  Sep-96 Sep-96 15.00 900
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Total O 21108 21108
Price per event 426.80
1 Covers 10 PO's in Stroud
2 Train 1 day per PO
3 Development is 15 days plus 5 days rework
4 Prototype QRG and workbook (5 days)
5 After care visit ; 10 days each PO - no extra charge
Pre Post Total,
3.3 Pathway project No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
training Off date date
(Charged as’ performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer 336.80 10.00 3368
Materiials 80.00 8.00 640
Updates 0.00 0 0
Materials 0.00 0
Total {e} 4008 4008:
Price per event 400.80
Total 33965.6
Estimated call off Q3/96 3 days
Q4/96 3 days
1997 4 days
Page 8
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp4
POCL/Pathway wp4 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Training Development
lpocl5.xlw
Version 5.5 15/07/96
Notes
1 Word 6 and Powerpoint mandated for electronic masters
2 Price to include dry run and formal sign off
3 Development to include for each course:
Training sessions
Materials (handout)
Workbooks
Quick reference guide
Course kit
4 Release 2 updates includes a changes from release 1 document
Cost is £10 per copy including distribution :
Total
4 Development Duration Start End Rate Ratio Days Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) days date date
BA Train the trainer 2 Q11997 Q2 1997 341.00 15.00 30 10230
POCL Train the trainer 5 Q11997 Q2 1997 341.00 15.00 75 25575
Helpdesk operators 1 Jun-96 Jul-96 296.80 15.00 15 4452
Back Office audit Course 2 Q11997 Q2 1997 296.80 15.00 30 8904
Counter operations 0.5  Jun-96 Jul-96 296.80 15.00 75 2226
system Managers 2 Q11997 Q2 1997 341.00 15.00 30 10230
Release 2 updates Q11997 Q2 1997 341.00 20 6820
TNA 35 Jan-96 I May-96 323.80 1 35 11333
User awareness dev 1 Q11997 Q2 1997 434.00 1 60 26040
Total 105810
Page 9
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wes
POCL/Pathway wp5 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
User education delivery
pocl5.xlw
Version 5.5 15/07/96
Pre Post Total
5.1 User Awareness Start End Rate Qty Price Price Price
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders) date date
Senior Consultant deliverer 434.00 681 295554.00
Trainer 336.80 681 229360.80
Administrator 114.00 _ 681 77634.00
Transport 52.00 ~ 681 35412.00
Introductory booklet (POCL) 3.00 70000 210000.00
Pack (BA) 10 500 5000.00
Total 0.00 __852960.80 _852960.80,
Price per event 1252.51

Notes
1 Developer is considered to be M5 consultant
2 Delivery is double handed

3 Assumes each session equivalent to 1 day because of logistics
4 Brochures at £3 head incl shrinkage (70,000 delegates) -
5 POCL awareness Maximum Occupancy of 100

POCI awareness is Sub Postmaster and POCL staff only.

6 BA Awareness is 10 events for 500 staff

Page 10
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp6
POCL/Pathway wp6 SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Training delivery
pocl5.xlw
(Version 5.5 15/07/96
Pre Post Total
6.1 Training Gear up No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
(Charged as per Schedule D3) Off date date
Programme cost 168500
Recruitment fees 20000
0
Total oO 188500 188500
Notes for Peritas's purposes only
Multiple gear up stages (SLK spreadsheet)
Pre Post Total
6.2 Crown counter trng No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer Apr-97 Dec-98 336.80 577 194333.6
Transport Apr-97_  Dec-98 52.00 577 30004
ORG 8000 Apr-97 Dec-98 1 8000
Handout/workbook 8000 Apr-97 Dec-98 8 64000
Total O 296337.6 296337.6
Price per event 451.8
Notes
1 There are 9211 Crown Staff (Workload Brief Ver 5.3)
2 No made up of 7719 clerks + 729 retail assistants + 763 Counter managers
3 £8,000 materials allows for shrinkage.
4 9211 less 2289 (3 from each PO who get Sys Man trng) attend Crown course
5 Therefore 6922 staff get trained in groups of 12 per day = 577 days Pre Post Total
6.3 Small/Medium PO No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
Off date. date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer Apr-97 Dec-98 336.80 9635 3245068
Transport Apr-97 Dec-98 52.00 9635 501020
IQRG 60000 Apr-97  Dec-98 1 60000
Handout/workbook 60000 Apr-97 Dec-98 8 480000
Total O 4286088 4286088
Price per event 451.8
Notes
1 57,810 staff (18,872 + 38,938) per Workload Brief Ver 5.3
2
3

4 Each event is 4 hours BUT day allowed to cover travel etc
5 Assumed occupancy is 6 making 9635 events

Page 11

FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp6
Pre Post Total
6.4 Follow up No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer Apr-97 Dec-98 336.80 12947 4360550
Transport Apr-97_ Dec-98 52.00 12947 673244
Trainer O
Transport i+)
Total O 5033794 5033794
Price per day 388.80
. Pre Post Total
No Start End Rate Days. Price Price Price
6.5 Sys Manager trng Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders) ‘
Trainer Apr-97_ Dec-98 336.80 764 257315.2
‘Transport Apr-97_ Dec-98 52.00 764 39728
Handout/workbook 2500 Apr-97 Dec-98 1 2500
2500 Apr-97 Dec-98 8 20000
Total O 319543.2. 319543.2
Price per event 840.6
Notes 321109.2
1 materials allows for shrinkage :2289 staff (3 from each crown PO)
2 2 day course
3 Occupancy of 6 is 382 courses (764 days)
Pre Post Total
No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
6.6 Help desk Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Trainer Nov-96 Jan-97 336.80 5 1684
Handouts 150 Nov-96 Jan-97 8.00 1200
Transport Nov-96 Jan-97 52.00 5 260 °
Total io) 3144 3144)
Price per event 628.8
Notes
1 This is a 1 day course
2 Occupancy 20-30 per course
Pre Post Total
No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
6.7 POCL TTT Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Con trainer Sep-98 Dec-98 434.00 60 26040
Transport Sep-98 Dec-98 52.00 60 3120
Course kit 70 Sep-98 Dec-98 50 3500
Total oO 32660 32660)
Price per event 2730
Notes

1 This is a 5 day event
2 There are approx 70 staff in 7 or 8 regions
3 Assume 12 events with occupancy of 6.

Page 12
em oo co Co og OO oe oe oo oo aes oe os

FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
wp6
Pre Post Total
No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
6.8 BA TTT Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
[Con trainer Jan-97 Mar-97 434.00 168 72912
Transport Jan-97 Mar-97 52.00 168 8736
Course kit 500 Jan-97 Mar-97 50 25000
Total oO 106648 106648
Price per event 1272
Notes
1 This is a 2 day course
2.500 people to be trained
3 Occupancy of 6 equivalent to 84 courses (168. days)
Pre Post Total
No Start End Rate Days Price Price Price
6.9 Back Office audit Off date date
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders)
Con trainer 434.00 1 434
Transport 52.00 1 52
Handout 7 10 70
Total {e) 556 556
Price per course 1042
Notes
1 This is a 2 day course
2 One course delivery only
3 Occupancy of 7 assumed
Pre post total
6.10 Backup/remedial trng No Start End Rate Weeks Price Price Price
Off date date
(Charged as per Schedule D3)
Trainer 3 Apr-97 Dec-98 1684.00 91 459732
Transport 3. Apr-97 Dec-98 260.00 91 70980
Trainer 6 Jul-97 Dec-98 1684.00 78 788112
Transport QO Jul97 Dec-98 260.00 78 0
QRG O Jan-97  Dec-98 i}
Handout O Jan-97  Dec-98 te)
Total O 1318824 1318824)
Price per week 5832 for backup team *
Price per week _.. 10104 for remedial team
Notes *

Peritas will provide a "hot" backup unit for the roll out period

This will comprise 3 trainers plus transport, materials etc

additional 6 staff to cover remedial visit workload

TOTAL

Page 13

11586094
wp7

POCL/Pathway wp7
Accomodation
pocl5.xlw
Version 5.5 15/07/96
Pathway risk

7.1 Accomodation No Venue
(Charged as performed pursuant to Orders) venues cost
Change mgt focus events
User awareness sessions 681 300
Crown PO training days 577 100
Small/medium PO days 9635 100
System manager training days 764 250
Help desk training days 5 250
POCL TTT training days 60 250
BA TTT training days 168 250
BA Audit course 1 250
Coffee 134542 15
Total venue cost 11891
Markup to cover admin. 15%
Total Estimated Venue price
(Charged Monthly in Arrears as Incurred)
Coffee Delegates
User awareness 67021
Training 67021
User awareness: BA 500
Total 134542
Coffee at £1.50/head 201813

7.2 Peritas Inspection Work
(Charged as per Schedule D3)

Total cost

204300
57700
963500
191000
1250
15000
42000
250
201813
1676813

251522

1928335

87568

Peritas inspection work will be invoiced q4 1996 through q3 1997.

Quarterly charge therefore 21892
Invoiced monthly as 7297.33
Total Estimated WP 7

Page 14

2015903

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

SCHEDULE D: PRICING
wp8

pocl5.xlw
Version 5.5

POCL/Pathway
Maintenance

15/07/96

wp8 SCHEDULE D: PRICING

Charges are for the period commencing end of the roll out, and are subject to
Pathway ordering the Maintenance Training Service.
Additionally Pathway may order courses and other events from the Maintenance

Training Service on an adhoc basis to cover new Post Office / Benefits Agency staff

joining after the rollout training in their area has been completed.

1. Change Management
1.1 Programme managet
1.2 Faciltated events

2 Programme Management

2.1 Project team

2.4 Training admin & help desk

2.5 Office accom.
TOTAL
Total pa

3.3 Pathway training event

5 User education delivery

6 Delivery

6.2 Crown Counter

6.3 Small/medium PO

6.4 Follow up
6.5 Sys Manager
6.6*¥RIp desk
6.7-POCL TIT
6.8 BATTT

6.9 BA operations

6.10 Back up & Remedial Team

7 Accomodation
Venues

All pric

t to RPI in

Price per week, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Strategic focus groups

Imp focus groups

Business modelling

EFQM events

Impact analysis w/shops

Testing w/shops

Price per week, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per week, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per week, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per day, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per day, invoiced monthly at end of month

Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per event, invoiced monthly at end of month
Price per week, invoiced monthly at end of month

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

2,500.00
900.00
725.00
725.00
725.00
725.00
725.00
725.00

6,000.00

4,700.00
3,600.00
14,300.00
743,600.00

400.80

1,252.51

451.80
451.80
388.80
840.60
628.80
2,730.00
1,272.00
1,042.00
5,312.00

Priced at cost to Peritas plus 15% markup to cover administration

cordance with DCI 1.12

Page 15
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

Sum
POCL/Pathway Sum SCHEDULE D: PRICING
Summary
pocl5.xiw
ersion 5.5 15/07/96
Pre bid Post bid Total we
Revenue Revenue Revenue Subtotal
1 Change Management 890550 890550
2 Programme Management
2.1 Project team 46,300 1,027,752 —- 1,074,052
2.2 Infrastructure 15,656 ° 15,656
2.3 Training help desk 829,920 829,920
2.4 Training admin 0 678,015 678,015
2.5 Office accom. 669,380 669,380 3,267,023 X
3 Pre roll out training 33,966 33,966 33,966
4 Development 105,810 105,810] 105,810 yt
5 User education delivery 852,961 852,961 852,961 X
6 Delivery
6.1 Gear up 0 188,500 188,500)
6.2 Crown Counter to 296,338 296,338
6.3 Small/medium PO O 4,286,088 4,286,088
6.4 Follow up 0 5,033,794 5,033,794
6.5 Sys Manager 0 319,543 319,543
6.6 Help desk . 0 3,144 3,144]
6.7 POCL TTT 0 32,660 32,660]
6.8 BATIT 0 106,648 106,648
6.9 BA operations 0 556 556
6.10 Back up & Remedial Team O 1,318,824 1,318,824! 11,586,094
7 Accomodation 2,015,903 2,015,903 2,015,903
8 Maintenance (To be agreed) tba tba
TOTAL (Exc! Maintenance) 61,956 18,690,351 18,752,307
Page 16
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

ay prt ~
POCL/Pathway SCHEDULE D3: STANDING PAYMENT PROFILE
[Standing Payment Profile
ss0790
Prine unt ind 1900 198810071007 t007 1087 108 10081088 oral
perweek Dawe Date Juna/a 8 ar a2 3 os a2 03 os
” 9 19 19 0 13. 3 12 n
2
2.800 tu 06——Dae-88 42,600 923800 32,800 32,600 32,800 32,800 32,800 32,800 32,600. 338,000,
5.600 . 5.600

22,006
18,003, ‘
2,987
2087
171308
4940
Clerical support 4000
2.2 Taaining management eye
2.3,Trining hp desk Ap-07 Deo 98 198,860 118,880° 118,660 118,660 110,860 116,860 ‘
2.4 Cours booking
Techical Support ry 00-08 O17 6178 7878-78788 8.t78
870 00-68 Ta107A10 410 7aIO 7410 TAI 74107410 7.410
1710 0-88 22730 2.290 22,290 2.790 22290 2.290 22.280 22.230 22.230
3.420 Dee-98 44400 44,480 44,480 44,400 44,480 44,480 4.400 48,480
2.8 Otten accom.
Office Space Pie per Quarter 43,500 43,500 43,600 43,800 43,500 43,600 43,800 43,600 43,800 49,500
TT exuipment 00-08 188,000
Headeote 00-68 6.000
2.2 Gtaud Go Live Development 20,208 20.300
4 Developmen
WP 4 dovelopmart activity 18,011 43,900 43,900 105,810
© Tiaining Dairy
5 Teining Gear Up 188,500
6.10 Back Up / Reeds! 22 Age 97 (a 88 ew "7810 76.8187 is 520,712
10,108 A078 191,962, 131,962 191,382 131,982 191,352 131,382 798,112
7.3 Aesomedation
Inspection of accomodation 21,002 e188 Sep 87 aye02 23,002 21,002 97,500.
(ice Per Quarter) °
TOTAL 74 307,108 406,134 614,758 692,867 592,807 02,807 02,067 692,007 5,116,663
Anni Cost 500.869 2.238.318 2.371.408
Netwe

Include time rlated conractual eamerts ony
ows not include taiing delivery

(oes not include disbursements in WP 2.5, which wil bo chetged ae incur
‘oes not include backup and remedial. teum WP 8.10

month in rreare

[The Supplier soll voice marahly in area in reapoct ol the above "TOTAL" Tine, with
Jasch quarere total boing vided ito equal monthly amount. however wetvitin to
lntich thave payments relate, shown on thi Standing Pymant Profil, ate pertormed
ater than planned (urlous by sreoment), the Supplier wl delay the rslvant invoice by
= coreaponding period. ¥ Pathway wants activities brought forward, this willbe aubjoct
te Change conta

Pace 28
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

El

E3

Ea

ES

E6

SCHEDULE E - PROJECT MANAGEMENT

The supplier will appoint a Programme Director who will have executive
responsibility and authority for all contracted activities of the
Supplier.

The Supplier will produce a Project Management Plan ("PMP") defining
how the supplier will perform its obligations under this Agreement,
and what overall approach it will adopt. The Supplier will supply the
PMP to Pathway within thirty (30) days of the date of this Agreement,
for agreement by Pathway. Once agreed, the PMP will be maintained by
the Supplier, with any changes being submitted to Pathway for
approval.

The PMP will: ’

(a) define the management organisation and controls; and

(b) contain a Quality Plan, as defined by Clause A2.1(c) of Schedule
A; and

(c) ‘NOT USED

(d) contain a Risk Analysis and Management Plan; and

(e) define the process to be used for the monitoring and management
of issues that arise in the performance of this Agreement.

Until the completion by Pathway of the roll-out of the Pathway system

to all post offices, the Supplier shall present formal written reports

in a reasonable format and to a reasonable schedule to be defined by

Pathway. These will cover inter alia:

(a) actual and forecast progress against milestones

(b) analysis of the status of. the Supplies.

(ce) status summary of Change Requests and Change Proposals (as
defined in schedule F)

(a) recommended changés to plans (if any)

(e) issues requiring resolution by Pathway

(£) xisks requiring input by Pathway, and supplier internal risks
that could impact the performance by Pathway of its obligations
under the Main Agreement

(g) activities planned for next reporting period.

The supplier shall attend regular progress meetings, chaired by
Pathway, to a reasonable schedule to be determined by Pathway. This
will typically be on a two (2) weekly basis, and not less frequently
than monthly.

These progress meetings will review progress against this Agreement
and will follow through any actions arising.

The progress meetings will be attended by the supplier’s Programme
Director and other. relevant supplier personnel with the necessary
information, knowledge and authority to act on progress reports, to
resolve issues and to ensure the achievement of the full performance
of the Supplier’s obligations under this Agreement.

The Supplier will ensure that the Supplier’s Programme Director and
other relevant Supplier staff participate in progress and review
meetings with the Dss and POCL where such attendance is requested by
Pathway.

The supplier shall control the schedule and delivery of the supplies
using standard project planning techniques; the Supplier shall also
manage and control the delivery of Supplies and the performance of its

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 30 of 42
CoO Co oo eS Od eee ee es as aes a

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

° PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

obligations using standard project planning techniques, including PERT
plans (critical path analysis) and shall be able to demonstrate actual
progress against the plans. '

E7 Pathway has the right at any time to inspect the plans maintained by
the supplier pursuant to Clause E6, and the processes surrounding the
maintenance of such plans. In support of such a right the supplier
shall allow Pathway full and unrestricted access to such plans,
processes and Supplier staff involved in the maintenance of such
plans, within one (1) working day after each occasion of being
notified by Pathway in writing of Pathway’s desire to carry out such
an inspection.

Es The Supplier will monitor and manage and keep Pathway fully informed
of issues affecting the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement. The Supplier will also promptly notify Pathway of any
issues that it becomes aware of that affect the performance of the
obligations of other suppliers and sub-contractors to Pathway pursuant
to the Main Agreement, or the performance of Pathway’s obligations
under the Main Agreement.

Eg At Pathway’s request, the supplier will provide Pathway with any other
information that is relevant to the Supplier’s obligations and
responsibilities under this Agreement, in support of Pathway’s
performance of its obligations under the Main Agreement and issues
arising thereunder, and the resolution of change proposals and
requests thereunder.

E10 The supplier will regularly monitor and review with Pathway the
effectiveness of and the need for the After Care Visits as defined in
Schedule A. If as a result of such reviews Pathway wishes the
quantity, duration, scope, content or other aspects of the After Care
Visits to be changed, then the Supplier will make appropriate
Proposals to Pathway under the. provisions of ‘Schedule F (Change
control).

co co co

‘guly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 31 of 42
=

Co co co hoolhUunmmlhUuo

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

Fl

F2

F2.1

F2.2

F2.3

F2.4

F2.5

F2.6

F2.7

F3

F3.1

SCHEDULE F - CHANGE CONTROL

SCOPE

This Schedule defines the change control procedure to be followed in
respect of proposed Changes. The Schedule also defines the management
processes and procedures for reviewing and evaluating Change
proposals.

PRINCIPLES

Pathway may at any time request or suggest and the Supplier may at any
time recommend or suggest a Change. In all cases the Change control
procedure described in this schedule must be followed.

The Supplier shall not unreasonably withhold its agreement to any
proposed Change. Until such time ‘as a Change is accepted and
implemented in accordance with the Change control procedure, the
Supplier shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing, continue to
discharge its obligations under this Agreement as if the request or
recommendation had not been made.

Where a Change is requested by Pathway in connection with a change or
proposed change to the Main Agreement or the requirements thereof, the
Supplier shall use its reasonable endeavours to accept the requested
Change.

The price and time (if any) for making a Change, and the price and
delivery time for the Supplies after a Change has been made, will be
fair and reasonable and proportionate to the direct cost and
availability to the Supplier of the extra or reduced work, labour
resource, capital resource, componentry, materials and other inputs
resulting from the Change.

Any discussions which take place between Pathway and the supplier in
connection with a request or recommendation for a Change before the
authorisation of the Change shall be without prejudice to the rights
of either party.

Any work undertaken by the supplier or its agents outside the agreed
requirements contained in this Agreement and which has not been
authorised in advance by a Change and which has not been otherwise
agreed in accordance with this schedule shall be undertaken entirely
at the expense and liability of the supplier.

Each party shall bear its own costs in respect of the preparation and
submission of Change Requests and Change Proposals.

PROCEDURE

In the event that either party wishes to suggest a Change or is
considering requesting or recommending a Change, that party shall
promptly initiate a discussion with the other party. such discussion
shall result in one of the following:

(a) no further action being taken; or

(b) a written request by Pathway to make a Change (a "Change
Request"); or

(ec) a written recommendation by the supplier to make a Change (a
“Change Proposal” or “CP").

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 32 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

F3.2 Where a Change Request is received from Pathway, the Supplier shall,
unless otherwise agreed, submit two signed copies of a CP to Pathway
within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the request (or such
other period as the parties may agree).

If Pathway considers that a Change needs to be made urgently, it can
designate its Change Request as a “Red Star" Change Request, in which
case the supplier shall submit two signed copies of a CP to Pathway
within five (5) working days of the receipt of the Change Request.
Although the supplier shall make reasonable endeavours to submit the
cP to Pathway within two (2) working days.

If the Supplier wishes to recommend a Change it shall do so by
submitting to Pathway two signed copies of a CP.

F3.3 The Change control procedure described herein shall also apply where
Pathway fails to fulfil an obligation hereunder. In such a case, the
Supplier shall submit a CP within twenty (20) working days after the
failure of Pathway to fulfil the obligation. If the Supplier does not
submit a CP within such period, the Supplier shall be deemed to have
accepted that no Change is necessary as a result of Pathway’s failure
to meet the obligation.

F3.4 Each Change Request shall contain:
(a) a sequentially generated reference number;

(b) a title;

(c) the originator and date;

(da) the reason(s) and objectives;

(e) full details of the requirement;

(f£) reference to any other Change Requests or CPs if appropriate;
(g) impact on Pathway if the Change is not implemented.

F3.5 Each Change Proposal shall contain:

(a) a sequentially generated reference number with the appropriate
Supplier prefix;

(b) a title; ,

(ec) the originator and date;

(d). the reason(s) and objectives;

(e) full details including any specifications and sufficient
engineering detail and validation data to enable the proposal to
be assessed;

(f£) reference to any other Change Requests or CPs if appropriate;
(g) the price; if any, for making the proposed change;
(h) the change, if any, to the price of the relevant supplies after

the proposed Change has been implemented;
qi) a schedule of payments if appropriate;
(3) a timetable for implementation;
(k) a proposed method of acceptance for the proposed Change, if

appropriate;
(1) details of the likely impact, if any, on other aspects of this
Agreement or the Main Agreement including but not limited to:
Gi) the terms of this Agreement,
(ii) timescales for delivery of other supplies,
(iii) risk and security,
(iv) the personnel to be provided,
(v) _ the price of other supplies,

(vi) the payment profile,
(vii) the documentation to be provided,
(viii) the training to be provided,

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 33 of 42
Ca Co Coa Co Co co C3 C2 Co co CoC

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY /PERITAS "PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOQO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

(ix) working arrangements,
(*) provision of spare parts,
(xi) repair arrangements,

(xii) compatibility of the affected supplies with other
Supplies or with products supplied to or by Pathway
pursuant to the Main Agreement,

(xiii) other contractual issues;

(m) details of any other likely or reasonably possible and
foreseeable impact;

qn) the date of expiry of validity of the CP;

(0) provision for signature by Pathway and by the Supplier.

F3.6 The Supplier will on Pathway’s request supply Pathway with the data
and tools used to carry out the assessment of the above impacts of
proposed Changes. Supplying such data and tools shall not be
construed to mean that Pathway has or ought to have actual or
constructive knowledge, warning or suspicion of any difference or
potential difference between.the actual impacts and those notified to
Pathway by the supplier.

F3.7 For each cP received, Pathway shall, within the period of the validity
of the CP, or ten (10) working days, whichever is longer (except for
Red Star Change Proposals, where the deadline shall be two (2) working
days):
(a) in conjunction with the supplier, evaluate the cP and, as
appropriate:
(ai) request further information; or
i agree an extension to the evaluation period; or
approve and sign two copies of the CP and return one copy
to the Supplier; or
(iv) reject the cP and notify the Supplier in writing of the
rejection of the CP;

F3.8 A CP signed by both parties shall constitute a Change, and shall be
implemented according to the details contained within the approved cP.
If after approval of the CP either Pathway or the Supplier wishes to
amend any of the details contained within the cP then a further cP
must be raised.

F3.9 The Supplier will produce a listing on the first working day of each
month of all the cPs issued during the previous month with enough
detail to enable Pathway -to identify whether any CPs have been mislaid
during transmission/posting. Nil returns are also required.

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 34 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

SCHEDULE G - PERFORMANCE MEASURES

PERFORMANCE MEASURE
Ref: PE201
Measure: ‘Training Course Availability

Objective: To provide a service in timeliness where all training shall be
available within 10 working days notice.

Requirements:

Total number of courses made available within a timeframe of <=10 working
days from notification of request. (Cyj9)-

Total number of training events formally requested. (C¢y).-
Benchmark:
100% course availability against course requests made.

Formula:

(Cr1o)
- * 100 = % Conformance

(Ctr)
Associated Measures:
Training Course Live Usage Delivery

Service Threshold Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level: % = 90%
Contract Review Level: & = 80%
Termination Review Level: &= N/A

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier: Peritas

duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 35 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE
Ref: PE202
Measure: Training Venue Quality

Objective: To identify the satisfaction level of the training venue as
registered by the training event delegates.

Requirements:
sum of training venue questionnaires completed by delegates. (Q,)..

sum of individual questionnaires showing positive satisfaction with training
venue (Stvs)

Benchmark:

50% service level achievement or better shown in submitted questionnaires.

Formula:
(Stvs)
soenee * 100 = % Conformance
(Qc)

Associated Measures:

Nil

Service Threshold Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level: % = 508

Contract Review Level: e = 35%

Termination Review Level: & = N/A

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

supplier: Peritas

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 36 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE
Ref: PE203.
Measure:

Training Course Quality ’

Objective: To identify the satisfaction level of the training course as
registered by the delegates.

Requirements:
Sum of training course questionnaires completed by delegates. (Q¢)-

sum of individual questionnaires showing positive satisfaction with the
training course (Steg)-

Benchmark:
95% service level achievement or better shown in submitted questionnaires.

Formula:
woonne * 100 = % Conformance ~

Associated Measures:
Nil

Service Threshold Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level: 75%
Contract. Review Level: 60%
Termination Review Level: & = 50%

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier: Peritas
Damages Schedule

Performance Measure

Event Fee Reduction

70% - 74.99% 108
65% - 69.99% 20%
60% - 64.99% 308
55% - 59.99% 40%
50% ~ 54.99% 50%
Below 50% No Charge
duly 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 37 of 42
C4 €9 Co Co fo co

CoO co oO co hue

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEQO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE
Ref: PE204
Measure:

Training Course cancellation

Objective: To identify the level at which courses are cancelled by the
Supplier.

Requirements:

Total number of courses planned and offered to the Customer, excluding
courses cancelled by Pathway. (Cpt) +

sum of courses delivered by the supplier. (S¢ce)-
Benchmark:
98% of all planned courses are to be delivered by the supplier.

Formula:

(Scee)
co---- * 100 = % Conformance
(Cpt)

Associated Measures:

Nil

Service Threshold Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level:
Contract Review Level:
Termination Review Level:

As benchmark
75%
& = N/A

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier:

Peritas

July 1996

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 38 of 42
C3 co co oe eolhLU

co Co

J

C

c7 Co Co Cy)

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE

Ref: PE205

Measure: Training Course Competence Levels

Objective: To ensure that 95% of delegates on training completion of their
training, can demonstrate an achieved level of competence of 90%
on transactions and operating platform as per level 2 of the
Kirkpatrick Evaluation Model as utilised by POCL.

Requirements:

Total number delegates attending the course. (Cia)-

Total number delegates attending course achieving competence level =>90%
(Tc1)

Benchmark:

95% of delegates attending to obtain 90% target level of competence as
measured by the POCL Kirkpatrick Model.

Formula:
(Tei)
coreee * 100 = % Conformance
(Cta)

Associated Measures:

Nil

Service Threshold Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level: %& = 95%

contract Review Level: & = 908

Termination Review Level: % = 75%

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier: Peritas

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 39 of 42
Co co

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE
Ref: PE206
Measure: Training Course Feedback

Objective: To provide a performance report feedback to POCL on each
attending delegate.

Requirements:

Total number of delegates attending course. (Cgt)-

sum of performance feedback reports submitted to POCL for the course (S¢,)-
Benchmark:

Performance report to be submitted for each delegate attending the course.

Formula:

* 100 = % Conformance

Associated Measures:

Nil

Service Threshold. Values:

Minimum Acceptable Level: % = 100%
Contract Review Level: = 90%
Termination Review Level: &= N/A

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

supplier: Peritas

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 40 of 42
Co Co C9 Co 3 Ca Co co eo

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATEWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO1 - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96

PERFORMANCE MEASURE

Ref: PE207

Measure: Training Course Live Delivery

Objective: To provide a service in timeliness where all training shall not
be delivered more than 3 working days before scheduled live
usage of the system.

Requirements:

Total number of individuals trained greater than 3 working days before
scheduled live usage of the system. (Cty)

Total number of individuals trained. (C¢y).
Benchmark:

100% course delivered within the target timeframe.

_Formula:

(Cer) ~(Ctu)

* 100 = % Conformance

(Cér)
Associated Measures:
Training Course Availability
Service Threshold Values:
Minimum Acceptable Level: % = 908
Contract Review Level: & = 80%
Termination Review Level: $= N/A

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier: Peritas

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page 41 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

\

\

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT - REF. NO. PEOO] - VERSION 8.0 15/07/96 NY

PERFORMANCE MEASURE

Ref: PE208

Measure: Management of Change Consultant - Quality Performance

Objective: To provide an experienced Consultant, of a high quality standard
and to agreed criteria who will facilitate and document outputs
from the Top Level Steering and Management Focus Groups.

Requirements:

sum of outputs from Steering/Focus Groups documented and incorporated into
the User Awareness, Public Awareness and Communications programmes. (Sgo)

Total Outputs from Steering/Focus Groups not documented or processed before
first user awareness event. (Tppq)

Benchmark:

Management of Change Strategy and User Awareness messages documented before
first user awareness event.

Formula:
(Sgo-Tnpd)
- --- * 100 = % Conformance
Sgo
Associated Measures:
Nil
Service Threshold Values:
Minimum Acceptable Level: e = 90%
Termination Review Level: % = 50%

Frequency: Daily / Weekly / Monthly / Quarterly / Yearly

Supplier: Peritas

July 1996 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE page 42 of 42
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
A

NY

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

APPENDIX 1

Schedule A

Al Work Packages

Al1.1 Management of Change Events

A1.2 Training Programme Events

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 1 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

CONTENTS
WORK PACKAGES
Al Work Packages

. Management of Change (PER / PD001)

. Programme Management (PER / PD002)

. Pre Roll out training (PER / PD003)

. Development of Training (PER/ PD004)

. User Education Delivery (PER / PD00S)

. Delivery of Training Events (PER / PD006)
Training Event Accommodation (PER / PD007)

. Support and Maintenance (PER / PD008)

OCIDAAEYWN—

TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS
A1.1 Management of Change Events

Initial Strategic Planning Focus Group

Strategic Planning Focus Group No 2

Change Programme Implementation Focus Group

Strategic Planning Focus Group No 3

Impact Analysis Workshop

Business Network Modelling Workshop

EFQM SBM Self Assessment Workshop

Detailed Impact Analysis Workshop

Education and Communications Strategy

Workshop to Test Understanding and Reaction to the Communications Plan

Al1.2 Training Programme Events

Riposte Counter Transaction User Course
System Manager Course

Back Office Audit Course

POCL Train The Trainer Course

POCL User Awareness Overview

BA Awareness Overview

BA Train The Trainer Course

Pathway Help Desk Course

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page2of40 - © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

\

<a

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Note applicable to all Services throughout this Agreement: all completion dates
shown as December 1998 are approximate dates, the actual completion dates
shall be set to coincide with the completion of the roll-out phase under the Main
Agreement, where appropriate.

1.1 Management of Change (PER/PD001)
1.1.1 Description and Purpose

The Management of Change Programme includes the following key activities:
- Management of Change Programme Management

+ Management of Change Facilitated Events

- Management of Change Development Activities

+ User Communications Implementation

Management of ‘Change Programme Management.

The programme manager who will be responsible to the Sponsors and Change
Management Steering Group for:-

ecompleting the required project set-up activities

establishing the change management team

edefining detailed work schedules

defining and agreeing the team’s method of operation

edefining and agreeing reporting arrangements

eco-ordinating all change management activities

edeveloping and agreeing overall terms of reference and a Programme
plan covering all of the relevant change management activity,
highlighting appropriate milestones and interdependencies

managing overall resource issues including provision of adequate
cover'and skills availability

© maintaining an overall risk register for all change management

activity

reporting on progress and issues to the Change management Steering
Group

equality assurance of the overall change management programme

Management of Change Facilitated Events

As part of the Management of Change Programme we have outlined a series of events
and activities within an overall programme. These are designed to

+ _ clarify or confirm the Top Team view of pressures for change, the shared vision
and strategy, and the principles which will be adopted in implementing change

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 3 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

+ communicate the top team’s views on pressures for change, vision and strategy
etc. throughout the organisation and to begin the process of listening to ideas and
opinions in an a culture which encourages openness.

+ ensures that opinions, ideas, and concerns are fed back into the change
management process

+ tests understanding of key messages on pressures for change, vision and strategy
etc.

provides a facility to examine opportunities for improving business performance
in defined key areas.

+ evaluates the impact of the proposed changes in terms of capability and capacity
for change - in particular on people and the new knowledge, skills, experience,
and attitudes that will be required to make the change effective.

- enables the implications of the change to be understood, defined and quantified
so that they can be clearly communicate and actively managed to facilitate the
implementable first steps

Management of Change Development Activities
User Education and Communications Plan

As part of the Management of Change Programme, Peritas will develop and
document a User Education and Communications Plan for both POCL and BA.
Because of the nature of these programmes the messages contained in each document
and their method of dissemination will differ although they are addressing the
requirements of the same Automation Programme. It is also true that they will
contain a significant amount of duplicate information and this has been accounted for
in the development timescales.

User Communications Implementation

In meeting the education and cultural change requirements there will be a need for
two main levels of communication, one ongoing and a second level designed to
achieve specific programme objectives, for example, as part of roll out activities.
User communications requirements will be based upon the knowledge of current
roles, responsibilities and attitudes, a version of the future desired position and the
individual steps needed to achieve progress.

The task of developing the Communication Plan will be led by the Change
Management Managing Consultant and agreed by the Management of Change
Programme Steering Group who will also agree the best way to make use of the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 4 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

current BA and POCL communication channels. A key responsibility of the
communication function during the progress of the programme will be the co-
ordination of communications throughout the BA and POCL user community. It is
important that the messages are consistent with the User Education Programme and
the Public Awareness Programme.

POCL/BA staff will want to be made aware of what is going to happen and why, be
reassured about the impact on them and their jobs and be given a good reason for
“owning” the changes.

1.1.2 Composition and Content »

Management of Change Programme Management Team

Management of Change Programme Manager full time 17.06.96 to 30.12.98. Peritas
will not change the individual fulfilling this role without Pathway’s prior consent
(unless the individual resigns from the role), such consent not to be unreasonably

withheld.

Pathway will provide the Management of Change Programme Manager with
administrative support and office facilities at Feltham.

Additional resources will be allocated to provide specific deliverables as and when
requested. They will delivered by the following roles:

« Managing Consultant
+ Senior Consultant
+ Consultant

Management of Change facilitated Events

All the events described below have outline specifications in Appendix Al.1.

These events represent the minimum activity we would recommend to underpin the
Management of Change Programme. If the Management of Change Programme
Manager perceives the need for additional events, a proposal will be made to Pathway
for sign off under formal change control.

Sponsors and Steering Group

1x 1 day Initial Strategic Planning Focus Group 1

1x 1 day Strategic Planning Focus Group 2

1x 1 day Strategic Planning Focus Group 3

POCL and BA Staff

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 5 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

10 x 1 day Change Management Implementation Focus Groups
4 x 1 day Business Networking Modelling Workshop

10 x %day EFQM events

10 x 1 day Detailed Impact Analysis Workshop

10 x %day Communications Testing Workshops

All these events are delivered by 1 senior Consultant and 1 Consultant and the half
day deliveries need to be counted as a full day of effort. Therefore there are a total of
47 delivery man-days.

Management of Change Development Activity

BA and POCL Education Plan and Communications Plan 50 days
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 6 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Facilitated Events Development

Initial Strategic Planning Focus Group 1 4 days
Strategic Planning Focus Group 2 4 days
Strategic Planning Focus Group 3 6 days
Change Management Implementation Focus Groups 35 days
Business Networking Modelling Workshop 17 days
EFQM events ‘25 days
Detailed Impact Analysis Workshop 35 days
Communications Testing Workshops 10 days

This is a total of 136 development days for the Management of Change facilitated
events. There is an additional 50 days for the preparation of a Communications and
education Plan. Should extra events be required then each delivery will take 2 days to
prepare (Preparation and Write up) and 2x duration in full days to deliver.

User Communications Implementation

The programme will be delivered in four phases:-
PHASE 1 Pilot and development

. Automated Benefits Card Mailer (110,000 copies)
+ Internal media Briefings Pack (Master)

+ Powerpoint Briefing Pack (Master)

PHASE 2 Education

+ Illustrated Guide to the new system (A5 folded, 110,000 copies)
+ Introductory Video (15 mins)

PHASE 3 Training

+ Internal Media Briefing Pack 2 - Learning

+ Powerpoint Briefing Pack

+ Learning Video (15 mins)

PHASE 4 Implementation

+ Progress Report Newsletter (10 issues, 1 per quarter, 110,000 copies)

PHASE 5S Management

+ Project management

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 7 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Outputs

The following are all outputs from the various focus groups and studies we propose to
undertake as part of the Management of Change Programme and which will need
appropriate sign off.

+ Management of Change Strategy and Plan
Education Strategy
Education Plan and Event Specification

+ User Communications Strategy

+ Communication Standards

+ User Communication Plan

+ Training Strategy

+ Training Needs Analysis

The following documents also need to be produced but will not be generated as part
of the current Management of Change or Training activities.

+ User Support Policy

+ Business Process Management Strategy
+ Policy Co-ordination Plan

- Documentation Strategy

+ Documentation Standards

1.1.3 Format

All documentation will be produced using Microsoft V4 product set:

Documents: Word V6

Spreadsheets: “ Excel V5

Graphics: Powerpoint V4

Project Plans: Microsoft Project.

Applications: Visual Basic 3.0

Database: Foxpro 2.6

Training schedule: Foxpro 2.6 database

Invitations: Generated by mail merge using the Microsoft Office
product set.

Staff Training Records: Data interchange file formats to be agreed

Installation schedules: Data interchange file formats to be agreed

1.1.4 Quality Criteria

e All Terms of Reference agreed and signed off by POCL/BA

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 8 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
GO) Co €&) 3 £4) co oy

J

C

co co

ca co

J

co coo luoolhlUu

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

© Event appraisals recorded and filed but not measured.

© All output documents are agreed and signed off by POCL/BA.

© All key requirements from the strategies are implemented and managed to the
desired quality standard.

o Meet Management of Change Programme management performance measure
(PE208)

1.1.5 Quality Method

Terms of Reference to be agreed in advance with Pathway for all deliverables

All output documentation to be agreed with Pathway before delivery to Pathway
Monitor. plans to ensure strategy is being implemented.

Periodic quality and performance reports prepared with POCL/BA and forwarded
to Pathway.

© Customer feedback sought via testing workshops.

oe 00

1.1.6 Not Used
1.1.7 Competencies

Specialist in Change Management

- Change management consortium

+ Previous experience DERA, Anglian Water, BBC, ICL

- ITEM, a specialist partner in Communications Programmes are being used. ITEM
is founder of the Association for Strategic Planning in Internal Communications
In-house capability Benefits Agency, Cabinet Office, Inland Revenue, BAC, DTI
are all clients of ITEM.

1.1.8 Volume and Estimating Assumptions

The full-time role is for the period from 17.06.96 through to the end of the
implementation on 30.12.98.

Attendees per facilitated event as per individual draft specifications in Appendix
All.

Overall numbers for particular events are based on achieving a reasonable diagonal
slice of each organisation. This has been viewed as 1 event for each of the 7 regions
of POCL and 1 event for each of the BA geographic territories. This covers regional
variations and is good public relations to start general awareness.

1.1.9 Charges

Refer to Schedule D.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 9 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.1.10 Risk Transfer

Peritas will appoint a Management of Change Programme Manager who can satisfy
the performance measure PE 208.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE. Version 6.0
Page 10 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.2 Training Programme Management (PER/PD002)
1.2.1 Description and Purpose

The training programme management consists of five key activities:

+ Training Programme Management Team

+ Implementation of the Training Management System (TMS) ‘
Provision of the Training Help Desk

- Provision of the Training Administration Desk

+ Provision of Office Accommodation

Training Programme Management Team

The training programme management function is responsible for managing all
services provided by the training supplier, liaison with Pathway programmes,
ensuring that the training deliverables are fully integrated with the delivery schedules
of Pathway and other suppliers to Pathway.

The management function will also ensure that training resource availability
incorporates sufficient contingency provision to ensure that no events are cancelled
because of a lack of training resource.

Implementation of the Training Management System (TMS)

The training administration system provides facilities used to administer the delivery
of training programmes and control the supporting logistics management system. The
work package will include the development of the import and export modules and
customisation of the management reporting functions.

Provision of the Training Help Desk

The staff on the Help Desk will support the 67,021 POCL staff who are using the
workbook to consolidate their training.

Provision of the Training Administration Desk

The training administration system controls the delivery and provision of supporting
logistics to the Pathway training programme. The purpose of the system being to
schedule training to meet the requirements of the installation programme, liaise with
POCL staff to advise and confirm planned attendance, and to confirm completion of
training to Pathway using both quantitative and qualitative measures.

Provision of Office Accommodation

Peritas will locate a dedicated Pathway Training Office in North West England and
will accommodate all office based staff, fully overheaded apart from any separate

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 11 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

agreements within the contract (e.g. telephone calls). This accommodation will also
provide adequate storage space to manage the documentation delivered as part of the
training programme. This space will be approximately 2,900 square feet.

1.2.2 Composition & Contents
Training Programme Management Team
Key Roles

Training Project Manager: January 1996 to December 1998
This role provides a single point of contact with
responsibility for all aspects of the training programme,
co-ordination of the activities within it, with those of
the wider Pathway programmes and those of the other
sub contractors to Pathway.

Project Control Officer: June 1996 to December 1998
This role is responsible for the administration of the
project library, monitoring the progress against project
plans and the administration of the commercial
processes required to support the programme.

Training Team Leader: January 1996 to December 1988
This role undertakes the management of courseware
development, assists with the selection of training staff
and ensures that all training deliveries conform to the
quality standards agreed with Pathway for the
programme.

Logistics Manager: October 1996 to December 1998
This role is responsible for the provision of logistical
support to the training implementation. They. will also
manage the integration of Peritas and Pathway MIS
interfaces.

2 x Clerical Support: One from October 1996 to December 1998
One from January 1997 to December 1998
Provision of general clerical support

Evaluation Officer: April 1997 to December 1998
Will be responsible for building training evaluation
criteria and operating the various measurement exercise
required by POCL/BA for the training activity e.g
course assessments, after course questionnaires etc.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 12 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

They will provide all management information to the
Training Programme Manager.

Implementation of the Training Management System (TMS)

Peritas will tailor our current system to meet the requirements of this project. This
will involve work in the following areas:

+ Applications development
+ System trials
+ Integration trials with Pathway control system

The composition and specification of functional modules will be formally defined
within an updated functional specification published after detailed consultation and
agreement with Pathway programmes office.

Provision of the Training Help Desk

The Help Desk will operate 9.00am to 10.00pm Monday - Friday and 9.00am to
5.00pm on Saturday.

A total of 16 staff will be recruited with effect from April 1997. They will be cross-
trained to undertake the Administration desk role.

Provision of the Training Administration Desk

The Training Management System is a Visual Basic/Foxpro application running on a
file server linked to eight work stations. The system will be manned by clerical staff
at all time when training is being supplied. The hours will be 8.30am until 10.30pm
Monday to Friday. The Training Administration Desk will undertake the following
tasks: ne

+ Import of installation schedules

+ Generation of training schedules

+ Assignment of course places

- _ Issue of training invitation

+ Confirmation of attendance intentions

+ Ordering and dispatch of supporting logistics

+ Generation of attendance lists

- Export of training completion records

-. Export of training competence test reports

+ Production of In-Store consolidation visit schedules

A staff shift operation will run, requiring a total of 10 administrative staff (including
a Supervisor) and a technical support person. The supervisor, 3 administrators and
the Technical support will commence October 1996 for the duration of the

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 13 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

implementation (December 1998). The additional 6 administrators will start January
1997, also for the period through to December 1998.

Provision of office accommodation

Peritas will secure 2,900 sq ft of office accommodation, including the following:

+ IT Equipment
- Stationery
- Postage

+ Telephone Communications
1.2.3 Format

All documentation will be produced using Microsoft V4 Product Set

Documents: Word V6

Spreadsheets: Excel V5

Graphics: Powerpoint V4

Project Plans: _ Microsoft Project.

Applications: Visual Basic 3.0

Database: Foxpro 2.6

Training schedule: Foxpro 2.6 database

Invitations: Generated by mail merge’using the Microsoft Office

product set.
Staff Training Records: Data interchange file formats to be agreed
Installation schedules: Data interchange file formats to be agreed

1.2.4 Quality Criteria

e Maintenance of project plans, attendance at relevant Pathway project reviews,
submission of timely and accurate information and achievement of key milestones.

© The application development is completed with all functions validated and
available for operational trial by 01.06.96 including the data interchange records
between Peritas and other Pathway functions.

¢ Each Post Office employee is trained within the three working days prior to
equipment installation or for crown post offices on the same morning/afternoon as
the installation.

© Meet performance criteria PE201, PE204, PE206, PE207.

1.2.5 Quality Methods

¢ Control and progress reporting will conform to the procedures defined by the
Pathway Programme Director.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 14 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
>

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE. AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

© Peritas Training Project Manager is an integral member of the implementation
project team and attends regular Pathway project reviews.

e Regular Peritas Programme reviews

e The quality metrics will include throughput, no-show rates and average attendance
levels. The overriding measure will be the timely provision of training status
reports to the Pathway installation programme.

© The Training Administration application will be tested in. accordance with a trial
plan approved by Peritas and Pathway Quality functions and will ensure data
capture to meet necessary performance measures.

1.2.6 Not Used ; 7

1:2.7 Competencies

The personnel used to undertake this function have experience of high volume
programmes integrated with installation programmes including the National Lottery
programme undertaken on behalf of Camelot Group plc. The software will be updated

and supported by the personnel responsible for the original development.

The administration system is derived from the system used to control the training of
National Lottery retail outlets at a rate of 1,000 staff per day.

1.2.8 Volume and Estimating assumptions

© 67,021 POCL personnel based at approximately 20,000 locations throughout the
UK, all to be trained on-site or locally .

e 500 BA staff to be trained.

© The database has been sized to hold the details of 200,000 trainees with training
schedules for the whole programme being accessible at any time. Loading trials
have been undertaken for up to 16 terminal operators, however, current workload

forecasts indicate a requirement for 10 active operators at peak times.

e The training management system will take 5 weeks to develop (5 weeks to code, 2
weeks to test and 2 weeks integration)

1.2.9 Charges

Refer to schedule D

IT equipment will be charged at capital prices as purchased, subject to a ceiling price
as shown in Schedule D.

1.2.10 Risk Transfer

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 15 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Peritas assumes the task of development to meet the roll out start date. Pathway must,
however, be aware that the availability of a platform and application have a major
impact on this task.

Meeting PE201, PE204, PE206, PE207.

External dependencies e.g. the performance of Pathway and its other contractors in
satisfying agreed dependencies, are the responsibility of Pathway.

Additional reporting facilities or data interchange requirements raised after the
approval of the functional specification will be subject to the project change control
procedure.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 16 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS.

1.3 Pre Roll out training (PRE/PD003)

1.3.1 Description and Purpose

This work package consists of the following elements:

+ Training to support the User Acceptance phase

+ Training to support the Stroud field trial

- Pathway Project staff Training

Training to Support the User Acceptance Trial

The User Acceptance facility will be used to validate the solution as it is developed,
until go live in 1997. Peritas will provide training for 96 personnel (two per each of
the proposed 48 counter positions). with 6 people per event.

Training to support the Stroud field trial

The planned Stroud field trial will consist of 10 Post Offices and approximately 15
counter positions. As these Post Offices will be implemented separately we propose
to train the staff for each one separately therefore providing 10 events, and up to a
maximum of 60 staff. Peritas will be using this as an opportunity to prove our
solution and staff will receive a draft workbook to consolidate their training with and
also an aftercare visit and competency test.

Pathway Project Training

10 * 1 day briefings for Pathway Staff

1.3.2 Composition and Contents

Training to support the User acceptance trial

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

16 x lday POCL Counter Operations Training 16 days
6 x lday Updates 6 days
Total 22 days

Training materials will be provided.
Training to support the Stroud field trial

Training course and materials development (QRG and workbook) 60 days
10 x 1day POCL counter operations training events 10 days

Total 70 days

COMMERCIAL INCONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 17 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

A 1-day Aftercare visit per Post Office will be provided at no extra charge

Pathway Project Training
10 x 1day Counter operations awareness sessions 10 days
1.3.3 Format

As Supplied to Users

Handout, workbook and Quick-Reference Guide will be presented in a four ring
binder but will be in draft version and monochrome printing.

As Held By Peritas Limited

The master documents are Word V6 with embedded graphics using Powerpoint and
spreadsheets using Excel V5.

1.3.4 Quality Criteria

As defined in the Courseware Development process detailed in the relevant Peritas
procedures manual. Agreement and sign-off of the course specifications and session
plans by Pathway.

None of the Contract Performance Measures apply to this work package.
1.3.5 Quality Method

e Using the Peritas development methodology which is ISO9001 accredited.
e Using POCL and BA methodology and standards.
© Review of training content accuracy based on course appraisals.

1.3.6 Not Used
1.3.7 Competencies

© The courseware development team have previous experience of courseware
development with Post Office employees as the target trainees, having assisted
POCL to prepare for the National Lottery Launch. Also, in-store training
materials, developed for updating 13,000 National Lottery Retailers in preparation
for the launch of the National Lottery “Instants”.

e Previous experience of course book development for Post Office personnel.

¢ Post Office Silver supplier status.

1.3.8 Estimating Assumptions

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 18 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS
User Acceptance trial
+ 48 counter positions
+ 2 staff per counter position
+ Occupancy of 6 on each course
+ Update briefing run once per month
Stroud field trial
+ 10 Post Offices
+ 15 Counter Positions
- Max. of 6 staff per Post Office to be trained
+ Max. 10 of 1 day aftercare visits required.
1.3.9 Charges
Refer to Schedule D.
1.3.10 Risk Transfer,
Peritas will accept no risk for this work package.
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 19 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.4 Development of Training Deliverables (PER/PD004)
1.4.1 Description & Purpose
Trainers kit

This work package creates the master reference copy of the trainer course kits and the
training materials to be issued to each user. These masters are in a form to enable
reproduction in volume and are the basis for delivery of training and in-store support.

They will be developed in line with POCL’s training and dévelopment standards
which are in line with Peritas’ own ISO9001 courseware development methodology.

User Workbook

The training workbook is used by counter and back office personnel as a guide to
both the care and maintenance of the IT systems and the operation of the applications
provided by the systems. The workbook is intended for use by POCL staff to
reinforce their understanding of operational procedures and to assist new joiners to
gain a detailed understanding of procedures prior to an in store visit by the training
support service.

Quick Reference Guide

Peritas will produce an AS laminated quick reference guide which will consist of 6
pages covering four key areas:

- Getting Started

+ Basic System Process

+ Benefit Payments

+ Banking

User Awareness Event

Peritas will develop a User Awareness Event for both POCL and BA. The POCL
event will be delivered by Peritas to all POCL staff and the BA event will be to a
targeted audience of 500 and then cascaded to BA staff.

1.4.2 Composition & Contents

Peritas have conducted a Training Needs Analysis (TNA) which has required 35 days

of effort. The TNA will be documented as a report which will be given to Pathway
during the first week of August 1996.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 20 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

As a result, the following courses will be developed:

Development

Course Duration Days
Counter operations v2 day 15
Back Office Systems Managers 2 days 30
Back Office Audit 2 days 30
Help Desk Operators 1 day 15
POCL Train the Trainer 5 days 75
User awareness (BA and POCL) 1/2 day 60
TNA 35
Release 2 update activity 20
BA Train the Trainer 2 days 30

Total 302.5

The development programme generates the following deliverables:

Trainers Course Kit
+ Objectives

+ Timetable

+- Session Plans

+ User handout

+ Slides

+ Trainers Notes

The trainers kit will be limited to the following

Handout 50 pages, monochrome, double sided in an A4 binder
Trainers Notes 120 pages, mono
Slides 50 colour acetates
Diagrams 50 colour. diagrams
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE. Version 6.0
Page 21 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

User Workbook

The workbook is a loose leaf document with the following structure:

Workbook Structure

—

Systems Systems Detailed

Overview I IAdministrationI I Processes
Generic I [Payments] I Receipts
processes

The workbook will be a double-sided print, in monochrome, provided in an A4 binder
and 120 pages. Should the systems functionality expand and additional pages be
required, a change contro] request will be required.

Quick Reference Guide(s)
- Getting Started

+ Basic System Process

+ Benefit Payments

+ Banking

The Quick Reference Guide will be up to 6 laminated A5 size monochrome pages
which are spiral bound

User Awareness

Peritas will develop a 2-3 hour event to be delivered in the evening. It will be
delivered with the support of audio visual presentations and the user application in
training mode. The event specification will clearly be targeted at the individual
organisations specific requirements. The BA event may be longer (up to 4 hours) and
delivered during the day.

Topics covered will include:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE. Version 6.0
Page 22 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

- Business Drivers

+ Business Objectives
+ Project Overview

- Systems Overview

+ Network

- Back Office Administration
Point of Sale

- Implementation Plan

+ User Benefits

- Instore systems
+ Impact on staff

POCL User Awareness event (specification in Appendix 2) 20 days
BA User Awareness event (specification in Appendix 2) 40 days
Total 60 days

1.4.3 Format
As Supplied to Users.

Handout and Workbook will be in a loose-leaf A4 ring binder, presented in
monochrome and with revision level included in change control section

The quick reference guide will be AS laminated with up to 6 pages, spiral bound.
As Held by Peritas Ltd

The master documents are Word v6 with embedded graphics using Powerpoint and
spreadsheets using Excel V5

1.4.4 Quality Criteria,

e As defined in the Courseware development process detailed in the relevant Peritas
procedures manual.

e Agreed conformance to Peritas training development standards and in line with the
Kirkpatrick evaluation model as used by POCL. This has yet to be defined by the
client.

© Agreement and sign off of the course specifications and session plans by Pathway.

e Agreement and sign off of the course materials by POCL and BA.

1.4.5 Quality Method

Using thie Peritas development methodology which is ISO9001 accredited.
Using POCL and BA standards for training materials where appropriate
Agreement and sign off with Pathway prior to acceptance by the client.
The workbook exercises are tested as part of the dry run.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 23 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

© Dry run of all events with a live audience and signed off by Pathway, POCL and
BA

e Review of training content accuracy based on course appraisals

1.4.6 Not Used

1.4.7 Competencies

The courseware development team have previous experience of courseware

development with Post Office employees as the target trainees, having assisted POCL

to prepare for the National Lottery Launch. Also, in-store training materials

developed for updating 13,000 National Lottery retailers in preparation for the launch

of the National Lottery “INSTANTS”

Previous experience of course book development for Post Office personnel.

1.4.8 Volume & Estimating Assumptions

© This package assumes the production of one master copy of course material.

e Development timescales based upon the duration of the User Awareness and
Training course specifications described in Appendix A1.2

1.4.9 Charges

Refer to Schedule D.

1.4.10 Risk Transfer

Within the scope of the initial set of training events, Peritas will undertake any

modifications arising during the roll out, other than changes arising from changes to
Pathway product or POCL procedures.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 24 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.5 Delivery of Awareness Events (PER/PD005)
1.5.1 Description and Purpose
The delivery of the User Awareness events requires four key activities:

+ User Awareness Delivery Team Gear Up
+ Event Administration

+ POCL User Awareness Delivery

+ BA User Awareness Delivery

User Awareness Delivery Team Gear Up

The project requires to establish a team to deliver each event consisting of
+ 1x Change Management Consultant

+ 1x Trainer

+ 1x Administrator

There will need to be distinct teams for the POCL and BA User Awareness roll outs.
The gear up is designed to induct project staff, verify their capabilities, train them in
POCL and BA culture, policy, procedures and establish the capability to deliver the
awareness event explaining the impact and benefits of the Pathway system.

No Peritas staff will be contracted to the programme unless they satisfy the
competence criteria established for the work package.

Event Administration

Peritas will offer a service that secures the delivery accommodation, issues the
invitations to the events and manages the delivery schedule and management
information. This will be co-ordinated via the Training administration and Help Desk
described in Work Package (PER/PD002).

POCL User Awareness Delivery

Attendance of the education programme will be mandatory for all POCL staff and
will be delivered locally to reduce travel. Peritas propose to run a series of evening
events in locations throughout the UK which will consist of a formal presentation and
model office demonstration. Peritas will control the mailing of invites to users. It is
anticipated that each event should target 90 attendees in urban areas, 50 in rural areas
and 30 in Highlands and islands. Special events would be conducted for senior
managers, specialist user groups (network managers), multiples and stakeholders.
The timing of the events should be in line with the overall implementation plan and
are planned to be delivered ten weeks prior to the go live date.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 25 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

The overview seminar is a face to face presentation delivered in a lecture environment
which provides managers, sub-postmasters and staff with an overview of the Pathway
project and a detailed understanding of both the user functions and the training
support functions provided by the project.

BA User Awareness Delivery

Attendance of the BA awareness programme will be by invite for a number of
targeted staff. These targeted staff would receive a briefing pack to enable them to
cascade the event throughout BA. It is envisaged that the attendance could be senior
managers or staff from BA training. Peritas propose to run a series of events in
locations throughout the UK which will consist of a formal presentation and model
post office demonstration. Peritas will control the mailing of invites to users. It is
anticipated that each event should target 50 attendees. Special events would be
conducted for senior managers, specialist user groups and interested third parties.
The timing of the events will be decided at a later date but will keep pace with any
regional implementation schedule.

The overview seminar is a face to face presentation delivered in a lecture environment
which provides BA managers and staff with an overview of the Pathway project and a
detailed understanding of both the user functions and the training support functions
provided by the project.

1.5.2 Composition and Content
User Awareness Delivery Team Gear Up

Recruitment

Induction

Pathway System
Competence test

Post Office Procedures

+ Competence test

Course presentation
Competence test

Event Administration

Event specification

User education schedule

Event invitations

Event inventory requirement .
Event handout/glossy

Attendance records

Event feedback

User Implementation Booklet

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 26 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
C7 Cl Ca 4 Co) Co Co

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

POCL User Awareness Delivery

See Draft Outline Specification in Appendix A1.2
BA User Awareness Delivery

See Draft Outline Specification in Appendix A1.2
1.5.3. Format

All documentation will be produced using Microsoft applications:

Documents: Word V6

Spreadsheets: Excel V5

Graphics: Powerpoint V4

Project Plans: Microsoft Project.

Applications: Visual Basic 3.0

Database: Foxpro 2.6

Training schedule: Foxpro 2.6 database

Invitations: Generated by mail merge using the Microsoft
Product set

Staff Training Records: Data interchange file formats to be agreed

Installation schedules: Data interchange file formats to be agreed

1.5.4. Quality Criteria

Quality of event presentation

Accuracy of response to questions tabled by audience

Attitude to audience

Event implementation keeps pace with Pathway Rollout programme meeting

targets and timescales agreed in this Agreement.

© Event feedback reports from each event are reviewed and meet the agreed
standards. The events will not be appraised using the training questionnaire.

o Event management accurately records attendance lists.

eo 00 0

1.5.5 Quality Method

Recruitment test lecture criteria as defined in the Peritas procedures manual.
Dry run planned event

Analyse user feedback reports and summarise .
Periodic quality and performance reports prepared and forwarded to Pathway.

e000

1.5.6 Not Used

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 27 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.5.7 Competencies

Delivery staff will be experienced instructors with an understanding and
conformance to procedures.

Specialists in facilitation and change management

Experience of User Education on other IT related projects, CENTOS

1.5.8 Volume and Estimating Assumptions

Max. 67,021 POCL staff to be.educated

Max. 500 BA staff to be educated

Maximum 100 attendees per event, although in rural areas, and in Highlands and
Islands it may not be possible to include that many people at one time due to lack
of people or their availability.

2 facilitators per event

Implementation paced

1.5.9 Charges
Refer to Schedule D.
1.5.10 Risk Transfer

Notie

ye

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0

Page 28 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
. PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.6 Delivery of Training Events (PER/PD006)
1.6.1 Description and Purpose
The delivery of the training is split into the following areas:

+ Trainer Gear Up
- Counter training for Crown Post Offices
- Counter training for Small/Medium Post Offices
+ After Care Visit
+ Back Office Systems Manager Training
+ Back Office Audit
- Help Desk Operator Training
+ POCL Train the Trainer
+ BA Train the Trainer
Provision of trainer back up and remedial team.

Awareness events, counter training and follow-on visits for each student are to be
ordered by Pathway as a package, i.e. each student must have all three elements of the
training.

Trainer Gear Up

The project requires to establish a team which includes in excess of 120 trainers. This.
work package is designed to induct project staff, verify their capabilities, train them
in POCL procedures and establish the capability to deliver training on the Pathway
system.

No training staff will be contracted to the programme unless they satisfy the
competence training criteria established for the work package.

Counter Training for Crown Post Offices

The POCL staff training course will be of 4 hours duration providing training for 6
Post Office counter staff per event. The attendees are those staff, where possible
whose counter positions are currently being installed.

The purpose of the event is to-ensure familiarisation with the new procedures
introduced by Pathway and how those procedures correspond to existing practices
which are being superseded.

The event will be scheduled to take place on the premises of the Post Office, and will
be consolidated during the following 2 working days by giving staff the opportunity
to consolidate their understanding by means of using the system training mode
supported by a workbook. The staff will receive an after care visit typically no more
than 3 days after the installation.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 29 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Counter Training for Small/Medium Post offices

The Sub-Post Masters training course will be of 4 hours duration providing training
for an average of 6 persons per event, those persons, on average, being from 2/3
locations.

The purpose of the event is to ensure familiarisation with the new procedures
introduced by Pathway and how those procedures correspond to existing practices
which are being superseded.

The event will be scheduled to take place in the evening, as POCL have advised that
in-store training is impractical for this category of location. The event will be
completed as close to the installation date as possible. The attendees will then
consolidate the learning they have received by practising using the training mode and
supporting workbook. During this period each trainee will be contacted on 2
occasions to check on progress with the workbook and ensure the state of readiness
for the in-store competence assessment visit which will take place on day 3 after the
installation.

After Care Visit
The work package provides the facility to visit up to 5 Post Office staff members in a

day in order to provide product updates or general support with (in all cases)
verification of end user competence.

Back Office Systems Manager Training

This 2 day course is aimed at POCL/Franchise/Sub-Postmasters who will be
responsible for the back office maintenance of the Riposte Application and also
general PC maintenance and trouble shooting. Up to 3 people in each Crown PO will
receive this training.

Back Office Audit

This is a two day course based on the content delivered to the systems managers but
tailored to meet the needs of the central audit office of the Post Office. There will be
one event for 7 staff.

Help Desk Operator Training

This is a one day course to enable help desk operators to be able to understand the

role and features of the automated system and be able to offer first line support to BA
and POCL staff

POCL Train the Trainer

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 30 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

This 5 day course is aimed at existing POCL trainers, who will be training both
existing staff and new staff on the automated counter transaction system.

BA Train the Trainer

This 2 day course is aimed at existing BA trainers who will be training both existing
staff and new staff on the automated benefit transaction system.

Back up and Remedial training
Peritas will provide a “hot” back up comprising 3 trainers and van throughout the roll
out period (April 1997 to December 1998).

Six additional trainers will be recruited and dedicated to remedial training from July
1997 to December 1998.

1.6.2 Composition and Content

Trainer Gear Up

Recruitment

Induction

Pathway System

- Competence test

Post Office Procedures
Competence test

Course presentation

- Competence test

Counter Training for Crown Post Offices

Refer to the specification in Riposte Counter Transaction User:Course in Appendix
Al.2.

Counter Training for Small/Medium Post offices

Refer to the specification for Riposte Counter Transaction User Course in Appendix
Al.2

After Care Visit
The agenda and checklist for this visit has yet to be specified.

Back Office Systems Manager Training
Refer to the spécification for this course in Course in Appendix A1.2

Back Office Audit

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 31 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Refer to the specification for this course in Course in Appendix Al.2
Help Desk Operator Training

Refer to the specification for this course in Course in Appendix A1.2

POCL Train the Trainer
Refer to the specification for this course in Course in Appendix A1.2

BA Train the Trainer
Refer to the specification for this course in Course in Appendix A1.2

Back up and Remedial training
Peritas will provide the resources necessary to ensure that students achieve the
required competency level.

1.6.3 Format

Master copies of course kits will be held electronically using MS-Office Version 4
products.

Each trainer conducting an after care visit will have a presenter to cover major
functions in addition to dummy cards for use in testing mode.

1.6.4 Quality Criteria

Adherence to Peritas Performance Measures contained in Schedule G of this .
Agreement.

PE201 Training Course Availability

PE203 Training Course Quality

PE204 Training Course Cancellation
PE205 Training Course Competence Levels
PE206 Training Course Feedback

PE207 Training Course Live Delivery
Resolution in hotline call rates

1.6.5 Quality Method
e Recruitment test lecture-criteria as defined in the Peritas procedures manual.

e Courses will be submitted to the QA functions of both Pathway and Peritas Ltd
© Monitor student progress via Training Help Desk.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 32 of 40 © Peritas Ltd ; 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

© Attendees will undertake a competence test on completion of the event. All
trainees will be required to pass an audit of course content and knowledge of
POCL procedures on the new system to performance standard.

e User assessment and competence training.

e Review of performance against agreed measures

1.6.6 Not Used
1.6.7 Competencies

e The applicants will be experienced instructors with an understanding and
conformance to procedures.

e All training personnel will have completed an induction programme of test
deliveries and will have understanding of POCL procedures.

e All staff will have completed the gear up programme and a number of classroom
events before undertaking an after care visit.

1.6.8 Volume and Estimating Assumptions

Refer to Schedule D.

1.6.9 Charges

Refer to Schedule D.

1.6.10 Risk Transfer

e Peritas have budgeted the cost of remedial training for those staff who do not meet
the agreed competence performance measure.

e Peritas will not carry the risk for additional event delivery costs arising from low
attendance levels as Pathway must gain full commitment from POCL Senior

Management that the training is mandatory.
© Meet all performance measures PE201 to PE207

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 33 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.7 User Awareness and Training Event Accommodation (PER/PD007)
1.7.1 Description and Purpose
There are four types of events to provide accommodation for, namely

+ Change Management Focus Events
+ User Awareness Events

+ Specialist Training

+ Counter Training

Change Management Focus Events

Peritas will need to run these events in hotels. This is due to the management level of
people attending the events and the requirements for the delivery of facilitated events.

User Awareness Events

There are currently 681 User Awareness Events planned to take place. As this event
is being delivered to large audiences (circa 90 people) and the purpose of the events is
to gain user commitment then these events also need to be run in hotels. There is a
requirement to deliver these events around the UK.

Specialist Training

Peritas are delivering a number of specialist courses for Trainers (POCL and BA),
Help Desk, System Managers, and Back Office audit. These events will be run in
normal training rooms at locations to be agreed nearer the time. These rooms are
those that Peritas would generally use to deliver geographically-based training.

Counter Training

Peritas will identify premises to deliver the 4 hour Counter Training to POCL staff.
These training premises will be close to the course attendees place of work and will
provide an adequate environment to ensure the successful transfer of skills. These
rooms need to be provided at minimum cost to Pathway whilst ensuring that they are
“fit for purpose”.

1.7.2 Composition and Content

Change Management Focus Events Hotel Room 47
User Awareness Events Hotel Room 681
Training Events (excl Counter Training) ~ Training Room 998
Counter Training (Crown & Small/med PO) Local Venue 10,212
Refreshments (1 cup o f coffee/attendee) estimate 134,542 cups

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 34 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001 —
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.7.3 Format
as in 1.1.3
1.7.4 Quality Criteria

Hotel room specification agreed and signed off by Pathway

Training room specification agreed and signed off by Pathway

Local venue specification agreed and signed off by Pathway

Agree training venue assessment questionnaire with POCL

Training course venue performance standards as agreed in the Contract.

1.7.5 Quality Method

© Terms of Reference to be agreed in advance with Pathway for all deliverables.

e Ensure all attendees on training courses complete questionnaire and that this is
recorded, summarised and reported. .

e To undertake a vetting procedure for all rooms to be used. Checklist to be agreed
with Pathway. :

1.7.6 Not Used
1.7.7 Competencies
Previous experience of providing training venues for large end user roll out

programmes such as The National Lottery programme for Camelot, Osprey Project
for the DTI and garages training for Mobil.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 35 of 40 © Peritas Ltd . 15 July, 1996
Co Gi Ge 2 feo CS oo Ce Oe oe oe oo el aes

iv es. 7 2

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.7.8 Not Used
1.7.9 Charges

Refer to Schedule D:

Peritas will operate this work package as a service to Pathway according to the
following charges:

Peritas will charge Pathway the actual cost of venues and catering plus a markup as
shown in Schedule D to cover administration costs.

Peritas will source appropriate venues and provide a quality inspection and
verification service.

Peritas will use its best endeavours to provide venues at the following target prices:
User Awareness sessions £300

Counter training £100

Other training £250

These target prices do not include catering, which will be charged
additionally.

oo 00

1.7.10 Risk Transfer

As relevant Performance Measures in Schedule G.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 36 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.8 Support and Maintenance (PER/PD008)
1.8.1 Description and Purpose

This work package describes the catalogue based approach Peritas will take to
addressing the following:

+ Training of POCL staff who are in “steady state” i.e. staff turnover that occurs
after a Post Office has been trained.
The delivery of work package elements following the end of the implementation
plan in December 1998
- Extra requirements during implementation

Steady State Training

POCL has quoted staff turnover rates for various staff roles. It is difficult-to assess
whether these percentages will apply to 1997 and 1998. and also what proportion
happen after a Post Office is in steady state. (Those before will simply be trained as
normal part of the roll out programme). Peritas will train those new staff who join
after steady state as extra events to those described in work package 6 which allows
for 67,021 staff to be trained in counter operations. The charge per event is Schedule
D.

After Roll-Out Training
The implementation plan is expected to complete at the end of December 1998.
Peritas will at this time have completed a skills transfer to POCL and BA trainers.

Peritas will provide Pathway with a catalogue of deliverables.

These deliverables can be categorised as follows:

Infrastructure Services Monthly charge
(project management, bookings service etc.

Event delivery Per event price
Specific deliverables (e.g. Newsletter) Fixed deliverable price
Development Activities/Consultancies Daily rate
Accommodation Room rate

Extra Requirements During Implementation

Peritas would undertake additional work to those volumes described in Work
Packages 1 - 7. They would be charged as per Schedule D.

1.8.2 Composition and Content

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 37 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Peritas will provide a catalogue of entries (described below) for which a charge exists
in Schedule D.

Infrastructure Service

MOC Programme Management
+ Training Programme Management
+ Training Help Desk
+ Training Administration
+ Office Accommodation

Event Delivery

Rates are for one event with preparation and write up. The table below therefore
shows the length of the event and also the total time required per event including the
preparation and writing-up time. If multiple events are run then the number of days is
proportionally less.

User Awareness 1 day

Crown PO Counter Training 1 day

System Manager Training 2 days

Help Desk Training 1 day

POCL Train the Trainer 5 days

BA Train the Trainer 2 days

Back Office Audit 2 days

After Care Visit : 1 day

Strategic Focus Group 1 day event 6 days
Implementation Focus Group 1 day event 4 days
Business Modelling 1 day event 11 days
EFQM events _ 1 day event 8 days
Impact Analysis Workshop 1 day event 10 days
Testing Workshops 1-day event 3 days
Specific Deliverables

Mailer 110,000 copies

Briefings Pack

Video 15 minutes

Video copies per 100

Newsletter 110,000 copies

Development Activities/Consultancy

MOC Consultancy
Training Development

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 38 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Communications Consultancy

Accommodation

Hotel

Training Room

Local Venue

All the above will require the following to be clarified:

- The nature of the requirement

- Amount of notice given

+ If there has been a long gap then some gear-up time will need to be added.

- That subsequent requests cannot be responded to and managed without invoking
the Programme Management activities to an agreed level.

1.8.3 Format

As in 1.1.3.

1.8.4 Quality Criteria

© Catalogue is agreed and signed off by Pathway.

© Ordering timescales and procedures are agreed and documented and placed under
change control. ‘

e As detailed in relevant work packages 1 through 7.

1.8.5 Quality Method

Ordering procedure in place.
Individual services quality assessed as per relevant work packages 1 through 7.

1.8.6 Not Used

1.8.7 Competencies

As per work packages 1 through 7.

1.8.8 Volume and Estimating Assumptions

This will be established at the time of ordering via the catalogue.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE. Version 6.0
Page 39 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

1.8.9 Charges
Refer to Schedule D
1.8.10 Risk Transfer

Peritas will assume some risks as detailed in the relevant work packages 1 through 7
and documented in the contract.

Peritas will accept no risk after the end of the implementation schedule in December
1998. ao

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 40 of 40 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Schedule A

A1.1 Management of Change Events

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 1 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

INITIAL STRATEGIC PLANNING FOCUS GROUP No. 1
POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Senior Managers within POCL/BA who are Sponsors of their organisations’ change
programme, and Pathway Senior Managers responsible for the management of change
programme. It will be important that ALL attendees have the necessary authority to
commit their respective organisations to agreed decisions and actions.

Maximum 15 participants per event.
OBJECTIVE

To agree high level policy, strategy, guiding principles, and management arrangements
(including membership and terms of reference for the Change Management Steering
Group) for the management of change programme, and to confirm:

+ POCL/BA Drivers for change
+ _POCL/BA Shared Vision, Strategy and Values
+ POCL/BA Business objectives

Other key areas to be addressed may include:

+ Key messages to be communicated to those impacted by this change (target
audiences)

+ Target audiences for key messages

+ Image and Identity

+ Standards

+ Terminology

FORMAT

A facilitated 1 day group session (Focus Group) with input from Peritas Consultants on
principles for effective change management relevant to this change programme.

Peritas change consultants will design the format and structure of the workshop, and
undertake all of the event administration including preparation of pre-event
material/briefing, calling notice, room bookings etc. They will also facilitate the event

The approach will be one that has proven success in gaining shared ownership and
commitment to the outcome, reaching common understanding and surfacing
assumptions.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 2 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

OUTPUT
A report detailing the groups’ agreed output and actions/recommendations for
attendees.
RESOURCES
We have assumed that one all day event will be sufficient to achieve the objective.
Managing Consultant/Facilitator 5 days per workshop
Senior Consultant/Facilitator 1 day per workshop

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 3 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

STRATEGIC PLANNING FOCUS GROUP No. 2. FOR
CHANGE MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP

POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Sponsors from POCL and BA, and Pathway’s Managing Director ( to provide input to
an initial briefing on key themes behind the output from their Strategic Planning Focus
Group), together with their respective nominated “Change Programme Managers”.

Maximum 15 participants per event
OBJECTIVE

To develop the high level principles and policy decisions agreed at the Strategic
Planning Focus Group No. 1 into a more detailed “Tactics of Implementation” plan,
and to identify any issues (with recommendations for resolution) which need to be
referred back to Sponsors.

FORMAT

A facilitated 1 day group session (Focus Group) with input from Peritas Consultants
on principles for effective change management relevant to this audience, in the context
of this change programme. :

Peritas change consultants will design the format and structure of the workshop, and
undertake all of the event administration including preparation of pre-event
material/briefing, calling notice, room bookings etc. They will also facilitate the
events.

The approach will be one that has proven success in gaining shared ownership and
commitment to the outcome, reaching common understanding and surfacing
assumptions.

OUTPUT

A report detailing the groups’ agreed output and actions/recommendations for
attendees, together with a report to the Sponsors, if required, which identifies any
outstanding issues, makes recommendations for resolving those issues, and highlighting
any areas in which further policy guidance is required.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 4 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

RESOURCES
We have assumed that one all day event will be sufficient to achieve the objective.

Managing Consultant/Facilitator 5 days per workshop
Senior Consultant/Facilitator 1 day per workshop

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 5 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
> I

PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

CHANGE PROGRAMME IMPLEMENTATION FOCUS
GROUPS

We recommend a series of Focus Group events within Regions for POCL and within
areas for BA as follows:

+ POCL -7 Regions x3 events per region = 21 events
- BA - 21 areas x l events per area = 21 events
POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Senior Managers who have been nominated by the Change Management Steering
Group and who have “cascaded” authority as local sponsors; Managers with
responsibility for implementing change locally; other participants selected from
different areas (functional or geographic) and different levels in the organisation
structure (Diagonal Slice).

Maximum 15 participants per event.
OBJECTIVE

To cascade information policy and principles relating to the change programme, the
implementation plan, key messages etc. which have been developed in the Strategic
Planning Focus Groups. In addition the participants will discuss implications,
perceptions and reactions and identify potential issues which will need to be addressed
by the Change Management Steering Group.

FORMAT
A facilitated 1 day group session (Focus Group)

Peritas change consultants will design the format and structure of the workshop, and
undertake all of the event administration including preparation of pre-event
material/briefing, calling notice, room bookings etc. They will also facilitate the
events.

The approach will be one that has proven success in gaining shared ownership and
commitment to the outcome, reaching common understanding and surfacing
assumptions.

At the end of the programme, a consolidated report will be produced for the Change
Management Steering Group.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 6 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PERITAS .
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

OUTPUT

A report detailing the groups’ agreed output and actions/recommendations for
attendees.

RESOURCES

One-off Series Design and Development (taking ‘account of outputs from Strategic
Planning Focus Groups No. 1 and No. 2).

Managing Consultant 5 days
Senior Consultant 15 days

One-off compilation of consolidated report with recommendations, at the end of the
series, for the Management of Change Steering Group.

Managing Consultant 5 days
Senior Consultant 10 days

Event preparation, facilitation, post event report.

Managing Consultant 3 days per event
Senior Consultant 1 day per event

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 7 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJO0120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No.PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

STRATEGIC PLANNING FOCUS GROUP No. 3. FOR
CHANGE MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP

PARTICIPANTS
Members of the Change Management Steering Group.
OBJECTIVE

To finalise in detail the policies, guiding principles, key messages and themes which.
will be reflected in the design and delivery of the overall Change Management.

Programme - in particular, the Communications Strategy and Plan, and. User and Public
Awareness Programmes.

FORMAT

A facilitated 1 day group session (Focus Group) with input from Peritas Consultants in
the form of the consolidated report produced at the end of the series of Change
Programme Implementation Focus Groups

Peritas change consultants will design the format and structure of the workshop, and
undertake all of the event administration including preparation of pre-event
material/briefing, calling notice, room bookings etc. They will also facilitate the
events.

OUTPUT

A report detailing the ‘Broups’ agreed decisions and actions/recommendations for
attendees. The scope of this report will include:

+ agreed action plan
+ key messages
+ principles and themes

RESOURCES

We have assumed that one all day event will be sufficient to achieve the objective.

Managing Consultant/Facilitator 6 days per workshop
Senior Consultant/Facilitator 2 day per workshop

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 8 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

IMPACT ANALYSIS WORKSHOPS

Understanding the impact of the project will be a pre-requisite to developing the
change management activities required to create the necessary, receptive, environment
for effective change. It is also key to establishing the right perception of the change
and its implications among ALL the people affected by it.

We have assumed that work has already been done to develop a detailed set of
procedures statements describing current procedures and new procedures, with relevant
volumes frequencies and dependencies.

We recommend:

i. anumber of workshops to model, using the well established Processwise
Workbench and Processwise Guide methodology, the current Business Networks
relevant to this project for POCL and BA.

ii. a series of workshops using the European Foundation for Quality Management
(EFQM) Strategic Business Model (SBM), as a method of capturing any short term
improvement opportunities which can be implemented as part of the change
programme.

iii, a series of facilitated workshops using Processwise Guide Methodology and the
Processwise workbench to model new processes (taking account of the IT
implementation and of the improvement opportunities identified.in the EFQM
assessments) and compare them with the current key processes. The detailed
impacts on people (in terms of Knowledge Skills, Attitudes and Experience),
processes, strategy, technology and structures can then be identified and defined.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 9 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS.

1 DAY. BUSINESS NETWORK MODELLING
WORKSHOPS

POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Senior Managers who have been nominated by the Change Management Steering
Group and who have “cascaded” authority as local sponsors; Managers with
responsibility for implementing change locally; other participants selected from
different areas (functional or geographic) and different levels in the organisation
structure (Diagonal Slice).

Maximum 12. participants per workshop.

OBJECTIVE

To develop a high level model of the current Business Networks relevant to this project
for POCL and BA, and to define the current critical processes which will be impacted
by the change programme. This will be a pre-requisite to undertaking the necessary
impact analysis workshops which will examine and analyse processes in more detail.
FORMAT

Facilitated structured one day workshops, using Processwise Workbench and
Processwise Guide:methodology to develop the business network model and to define
existing processes.

OUTPUT

A report documenting the agreed Business Network Model and key processes identified

RESOURCES

We recommend that budgetary provision is made for up'to 4 one day Business Network
Modelling Workshops.

One-off design and development for the series of workshops.
Managing Consultant 5 days

Facilitation, modelling support, report production for each 1 day workshop

Managing Consultant/Facilitator 3 days
Processwise workbench modular 2 days

. COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 10.of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
2.

EFQM SBM SELF ASSESSMENT WORKSHOPS FOR
MANAGEMENT TEAMS

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES. & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Senior Managers who have been nominated by the Change Management Steering
Group and who have “cascaded” authority as local sponsors; Managers with
responsibility for implementing change locally; other participants selected from
different areas (functional or geographic) and different levels in the organisation
structure (Diagonal Slice).

Maximum 15 participants per workshop.

OBJECTIVE

To understand where POCL/BA are now in relation to European Forum for Quality
Management (EFQM) Strategic Business Model (SBM), and to identify improvement
initiatives which POCL/BA should be recommended to integrated with the
implementation - or which would be facilitated by it.

FORMAT

EFQM assessment events are facilitated workshops using a software tool “Option
finder” to establish the team’s assessment of the business’s current position in each area

of the Strategic Business Model. The workshops can be completed in 5 hours.

SBM is an effective way of bench-marking the business against best practice in 200
organisation in EFQM in a holistic way. The model covers:

Enablers

Leadership
. People Management
: Policy and Strategy
. Resources
. Processes
Results

‘ People Satisfaction.
. Customer Satisfaction
. Impact on Society

. Business Results
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 11 of 15. © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
>

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

OUTPUT

A report documenting the groups’ assessment against the Strategic Business Model
with agreed actions/recommendations.

RESOURCES

We recommend that budgetary provision is made for up 24 half day EFQM Assessment
Workshops.

One-off design and development for the series of workshops
Managing Consultant/Facilitator 5 days

Pre-event preparation, facilitation of the workshop, use of option finder for the
workshop, report summarising results, actions and output from option finder.

Managing Consultant/Facilitator 3 days
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 12 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
= =e
~

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

DETAILED IMPACT ANALYSIS WORKSHOPS

POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS

Senior Managers who have been nominated by the Change Management Steering
Group and who have “cascaded” authority as local sponsors; Managers with
responsibility for implementing change locally; other participants selected from
different areas (functional or geographic) and different levels in the organisation
structure (Diagonal Slice).

Maximum. 12 participants per workshop.

OBJECTIVE

To define the detailed impacts of the IT project, and improvements identified in the
EFQM assessments, on people (in terms of Knowledge Skills, Attitudes and
Experience), processes, strategy, technology and structures.

FORMAT

A series of facilitated workshops using Processwise Guide Methodology and the
Processwise workbench to:model new ‘processes (taking account of the IT
implementation and of the improvement opportunities identified in the EFQM
assessments) and compare them with the current key processes so that the change
impact can be identified.

OUTPUT

A report detailing process models, improvement initiatives and the groups’ agreed view
of the impact of changes with recommendations for action.

RESOURCES

We recommend that budgetary provision be made for up to 24 Detailed Impact
Analysis Workshops.

One-off design and development for the series of workshops
Managing Consultant/Facilitator 5 days

Facilitation, modelling support, report production for each 1 day workshop

Managing Consultant/Facilitator 3 days
Processwise workbench modular 2 days

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 13 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGY

The education and communications strategy will need to embrace the means by which
the confirmed drivers for change, shared vision and strategy, are explained to all those
affected by the change programme. It also will need to address the ways in which the
implications of the change are explained, expectations set, and agreed policies and
principles are conveyed.

The development of the strategy and plans, by specialist consultants, will depend on
the outputs from:

+ Strategic Planning Focus Groups
+ Implementation Focus Groups Programme

Impact Analysis Programme

OUTPUT

Recommendations and Statements of Requirements will be documented in a report to
the Change Management Steering group. The report will address 2 key sets of
activities:

1. General Communications Programme
2. User Awareness Programme

Specialist Consultancy 50 days
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 14 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS .
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

WORKSHOPS TO TEST UNDERSTANDING AND
REACTION TO THE COMMUNICATIONS PLANS

In cascading , repeating and reinforcing the key messages it:will be necessary to check
understanding amongst each Target Group and to feed -back results into the
communications strategy and plans.

FORMAT

We recommend a number of structured and facilitated half day or evening workshops
with sample groups selected in a way which will give the required representative
picture of how well the communications strategy is achieving its objectives.

OUTPUT

A report detailing the findings from each workshop with recommendations for action
will be produced after each-event.

RESOURCES

We recommend that budgetary provision be made for up to 10 of these workshops in
each of the seven POCL Regions, (70 workshops), and up to 2 workshops in each BA
Area. (42 workshops). We have assumed a maximum group size of 20 people.

Senior Consultant 1 day workshop
Consultant 2 day workshop

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 15 of 15 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Schedule A

Al1.2 Training Programme Events

-_ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 1 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Riposte Counter Transaction User Course.
Duration 4 hours.
Course Attendee Profile.

This course is aimed at POCL/Franchise/Sub Post Office counter staff who will be the interface
between the application and the customer. °

The course is highly interactive.

Course Objectives

At the end of the course the user will be able to:

e Use an automated system confidently at the counter position to deal with customers requests.
e Understand the concepts and be able to pay benefits using the system.

© Change printer ribbon and paper.

Course Content (standard Module 1)

Hardware/Software Overview
This session covers the description of the equipment which will be used/installed, the items which
will be described will be the processor, screen, keyboard, scanner, printer and card reader.

Network Overview

An “English” overview with regards to what happens to the transactions/information collected by
the computer, both locally and remotely.

© What? (is sent to which system)

e Why? (reasons for automation)

© When? (the transactions/information is updated)

Start-up Procedure
Explains to the user the various stages from switching on the computer through to the logon
screen appearing.

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 2 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Logging on/Logging off Riposte .

Describes the steps the user has to take to access the Riposte application

e Password security

© What happens if an invalid teller identification or password is input.

e Leaving the application.

An exercise in signing on and off the system will take place at the end of this session.

The Main Desktop

© The Desktop Menu
e What is an icon

e Help

o Messages
© User Privilege Level

Serving the Customer

This session describes how to put a simple transaction through the computer, explaining what
happens at all stages through to settlement, then takes the user through: ©
e A multiple transaction

cancelling a transaction

reversing a transaction

various payment types accepted by the computer

printing transaction receipts/reprints

parcel post

Local system schemes

An exercise will be given on the above transactions.

Paying Benefits

© Overview of procedures

Lost / defaced card

Casual agent

Authorised collectiéir of payments
Computerised:stop notices

Giro Bank

This session dealing with the banking side of the business
© Paying in cash (deposits)

e Taking out cash (withdrawals)

© Interest

Banking Rates

An exercise will be given at the end of this session.

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 3 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS
Paying Benefits

This session deals with the new procedures for using benefit cards, what to do when a client has
lost/defaced the card, casual agent, authorised collection of payments, computerised stop
notices. There will be an exercise at the end of this session.

Temporary Lock

Continue Customer Session.

Suspend/Resume Customer Session.

This session describes to the user the above utilities where/when and why they would be used.

Balancing

© Daily

© Weekly

e Report Printing .

This session explains to the user the various balancing/reporting facilities which they now have
on the computerised system and comparisons will be made with the methods in use at present.

Changing Printer Paper and ribbon
This session explains how to change the paper in the printer and the printer ribbon..

Procedures in the event of a system failure.

This session describes what the user should do /check if the system fails. Also the Help Desk
telephone number to ring for assistance.

For approximately 10 mins at the end of the training course the delegates will have a “role play”
exercise based on Riposte Counter Transaction Application.

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 4 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PERITAS
PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Systems Manager Course Specification
Duration 2 Days

Course Attendee Profile

This course is aimed at POCL/Franchise/Sub postmasters who will be responsible for the back
office maintenance of the Riposte Application and also general PC maintenance and trouble
shooting. a 7

Course Objectives

At the end of the 2 day course the user will be able to :

Use the Riposte Application for counter transactions.
Administer the Riposte Counter Application for stock control.

Carry out general User Maintenance on the system.
Identify general system problems.

The course is highly interactive

_ Structure

Day 1

1.Using the Riposte Application for counter transactions. (Standard Module 1)
2. Counter Administration. (Standard Module 2) :

Day 2

3. Office Administration (Standard module 3)
4. General trouble shooting (Standard module 4)

_ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 5 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Standard Module 2 Counter Administration

a) Cashing Procedures
- Declaring cash in hand.
- Daily Cash locked up.
- Producing a Trial Balance.
-  Producing;a Final Balance.
- Declaring Losses and Gains.
- Clear Losses and Gains.
- Printing Reports and Client Summaries.
- Client Transaction cut-offs
- End of Day Procedures.
-  Roll-over.

b) Stock Unit Maintenance.
- What is a Stock Unit?
- Attaching a Stock Unit.
- Sharing a Stock Unit.
-  Detaching a Stock Unit.
- Starting a New Stock Unit Balance Period.

c) Stock Movements.
- Declaring Transfers In/Out.
- Declaring Remittances.
- Declaring Receipt or Retum to Supplies Division.
- Print Transfer/Remittance Reports.
- Stock Unit Balancing.
- Declaring Stock in Hand.
- Printing Stock in Hand Report.

This session explains to the user the advantages of using a computerised system and the
processes for cash balancing, stock movements and stock unit maintenance.

There will be an exercise on specific areas of this module

_ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 6 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
co mm oe es es oo oo ee ie ie ie ae ae ae ae ae ae ae aoa) sees

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Standard Module 3 Office Administration.

a) User Administration.
- Adding a user.
- Removing a user.
- Modifying user details.

b) Stock Unit Maintenance.
- Adding a Stock Unit.
- Removing a Stock Unit.
- Modifying a Stock Unit.

c) Office Cash Accounting.
- Office Balance. (Weekly Cash Book)
- Cash Account.
- End of Week.
- Accounting Adjustments.

d) Office Reports.
- Daily reports.
‘Weekly reports.

Revisions.
Revisions tables. .

e) Maintaining Reference Data.
- modifying price changes.
- local products.

f) Stock Product Data.
- modifying unit prices.
- disabling stock products.

g) Other Product Data
- modify product data (default price).
- disabling a product (not for sale).
- enable new product/freezing old version

h) Local Schemes.
- adding.
- modifying.
- deleting.

i) Automated Products.

— COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 7 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

dD

k)

)
m)

n)

°)

- adding.
- modifying
- deleting.

Water Authorities.
- adding.
- modifying.
- deleting.

Maintaining Office Data.
- allows modification of specific information i.e. name and address.

Cash Targets.
Balance/Daily Cash Book Printing Options.

Cash Account Dates.
-  multi-week cash account.

Preferences.

- tailoring for individuals.
This session deals with application maintenance such as adding new users, modifying their
details, modifying local scheme information, modifying reference date and looking at
producing reports in detail.

There will be a practical exercise at the end of this session.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0

Page 8 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
» APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Standard Module 4 General Trouble Shooting

a) Cleaning Computer Components.
- screen.
- card reader

b) Replacing Printer Ribbon.
c) Changing printer paper.
d) Changing scanner bulb.

e) What happens if?
- screen dead.
- printer not printing.
- scanner not scanning.
- card reader dead.
- system will not load.
- power fails
- manual procedures.
- power retums.
- _ batch input.

This session describes how to maintain the computer equipment a general guideline to things to
check if there is a problem with the equipment (hardware/software). Also where to ring if there
is a problem.

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 9 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Back Office Audit Course Specification
Duration 2 Days
Course Attendee Profile

This course is aimed at Post Office central audit function who will be responsible for the back
office audit of the Riposte Application.

Course Objectives

At the end of the 2 day course the user will be able to:

e Use the Riposte Application for counter transactions.

e Administer the Riposte Counter Application for stock control.
e Carry out general User Maintenance on the system.

e Identify general system problems.

The course is highly interactive.

Course Content

Day 1

1. Using the Riposte Application for counter transactions. (Standard module 1)
2. Counter Administration. (Standard Module 2)

Day 2

3. Office Administration (Standard Module 3)
4. General auditing. (Content to be agreed)

_ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 10 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

POCL Train The Trainer Course

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Duration 5 Days
Course Attendee Profile.

This course is aimed at existing POCL Trainers who will be training both existing staff and new
staff on the automated counter transaction system.

The course will facilitate plenty of practical work and there will be some evening work.

Course Objectives.

At the end of the 5 day event the delegates will be competent to train staff to carry out their daily
tasks which will include Counter transactions, counter administration, stock control, office
administration and general trouble shooting.

Course Content

Introduction to the course
© General Administration
© timetable

°  start/finish times

e break times

Trainee presentations (10 minutes each on a non-work related topic)

Introduction to the project
e Impact on the Post Office
e Roll Out Strategy.
e Event Administration.
e Training.
-Trainer Event Reports.
-Appraisal Forms.
© Follow-up Care Visit.
-Workbooks.
-Application competence.
e The Help Desk.
¢ Procedural Changes.
-Benefits Agencies.
-Post Office Counters.

_ COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 11 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS.PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Counter Transactions (Standard module 1)
Counter Administration (Standard Module 2)
Office Administration. (Standard Module 3)
General troubleshooting (Standard Module 4)
Delegate presentations

Interviews and feedback.

= COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 12 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY /PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

POCL User Awareness Overview
Duration approx. 2 hours

Attendee Profile

The User Awareness Overview is aimed at Post Office managerial staff and Sub Post Masters to
give them an insight into the major changes which will affect their entire working practises.

Overview Objectives

At the end of the session the delegates will be aware of the impact automation will have on
POCL’s business, how the implementation will be carried out, when the automated system will
be implemented and what the Counter Terminal System will do.

Structure

Module 1 General Introduction
- (Video or Message from the General Manager)

Module 2 Why POCL/BA are making such major changes.
- What are the implications
- Increasing business potential
- Cutting down on fraud

Module 3 Impact on your business operations.

Module Planning for Implementation
- Site visits
- Site prep**
- Installation plan
- Training
- Care visits
- Help Desk

Module 4 Counter Terminal System Demonstration

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 13 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

BA Awareness Overview

Duration Approx. 3 hours:

Attendee Profile

The BA Awareness Overview is aimed at BA staff to give them an insight into the major changes
which are taking: place within the Post Office relating primarily to the introduction of the new

Benefits Card system.

Overview Objectives

At the end of the session the delegates will be aware of the impact the Benefits Card system ‘will
have on POCLs’ business. POCLs’ implementation strategy and how BAs’ payments
procedures will change.

Structure

1 General Introduction

2 ‘Why POCL/BA are making such major changes.

- What are the implications
-Cutting down on fraud.
-Introduction to the Benefits Card System:
-New Procedures
-Temporary Token
3 POCLs’ Implementation Plan
-Site visits
-Site prep
-Installation plan
-Training
Care visits
-Help.Desk
4. Information dissemination and support services.
5 Counter Terminal System Demonstration
a COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 14 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

BA Train The Trainer Course

Duration 2 Days

Course Attendee Profile.

This course is aimed at existing BA Trainers who will be training both existing staff and new
staff on the BA Card System and its associated procedures.

The course will facilitate plenty of practical work and therewill be some evening work.

Course Objectives.

At the end of the 2 day event the delegates will be competent to train staff to carry out their tasks
relative to Benefit Cards.

Structure

Day 1

1 Introduction to the course
~General Administration
-timetable
-start/finish times
-break times

Trainee presentations (10 minutes each on a non-work related topic)

2 Introduction to the project.
-Impact on the Post Office
-Roll Out Strategy
-Training
-Follow-up Care Visit
-Workbooks
-Application competence
-The Help Desk

3 Procedural Changes within BA
-Card Issue
-Types of Card
-Card Ordering
-Pickup Notices
-Stop Notices
-Temporary Tokens

2 COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 15 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF No PE001
APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

4 Procedural Changes within POCL
5. Allocation of Delegate Activities
6 Prep for delegates sessions.
Day 2
7 Delivery of delegates sessions (20 mins each)
-appraisal
-discussion
8 Interviews
- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 16 of 17 I @ Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE: AGREEMENT REF No PE001

APPENDIX 1 - WORK PACKAGES & TRAINING EVENT SPECIFICATIONS

Pathway Help Desk Course
Duration 1 day.

Course Attendee Profile.
Pathway help desk staff.
Variants of this event are available to Pathway internal and subcontract organisations.

Course. Objectives
At the end of the course the user will be able.to understand the role and features of the automated
system and be able to offer first line‘support to BA and POCL staff.

Course Content
e User awareness session as run for POCL staff.

© ‘Using the Riposte Application for counter transactions. (Standard Module 1)

- COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 6.0
Page 17 of 17 © Peritas Ltd 15 July, 1996
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page: 1 of 11
TITLE: COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE

IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
ABSTRACT: This document details Pathway’s Implementation Plan for the

rollout of the Counter Infrastructure based on the new
requirements issued by BA/POCL.

ISSUE: Version 5

DISTRIBUTION LIST: Pathway
D2D
WIL
Exel Logistics
Peritas
Fujitsu ICL
Verification Centre

AUTHOR: Barrie Davies

Pathway Implementation Manager

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL
PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 2 of 11
VERSION CONTROL

Version 1 - First release 4/3/96 for Suppliers Workshop

Version 2 - This release, updates to assumptions regarding consummables and
distribution of “Back office” PC’s.

Version 3 - This release includes the gantt chart detailing the Counter
Infrastructure rollout.
Inclusion of Rollout volumes spreadsheet.
Increased distribution within Pathway.

Version 4 - Baseline date change: Roll-out starting in JULY 97, not MARCH

Version 5 - Rollout starting in July 1997 and completing by December 1998,
hence reducing the rollout to 67 weeks.

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
coo oo oo hue hue sees

PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 3 of 11
Assumptions

1,

10.

The Workload Brief used to create the statistics and plans, over, are those
contained in version 5.3.

All “main” Post Offices (referred to in Schedule X) are those with 4 counter
positions or more. (1,843 as per Workload Brief).

The main Post Offices are distributed uniformly across all “Implementation
Groups” (see below). That is to say, the greater the number of Post Offices
within an IG, the greater proportion of those will be “Main”.

Live Operation will start in September 1996, but this will not be indicative of
the rollout configuration or procedures used for roll-out. The period between.
September 1996 and March 1997 will be deemed “Limited Go Live” and will
use a Pre- release version of the Pathway solution which will relate to about 10
Post Offices, in one town, with initially 15 but increasing to about 1500 BA
customers. .

The Live Trials phase of Operational Trials will start in Aprill997, and this :
WILL be indicative of final configuration and functionality, and WILL trial the
operational procedures used for site installation, configuration, migration and
others. The Live Trials will be implemented in 60 Post Offices, on up to 300
Counter Positions. The figures below ignore these Post Offices for the.
purposes of scope and planning. Details on what “Start” means for Service
Suppliers is listed in point 23, below.

The Live Trials phase will last 3 months and complete successfully on June
27th 1997.

The Implemezxtation Rollout will commence on Monday 30th June 1997.
The Implementation Rollout must complete before end Q4/98.

Each Quarter is assumed to have 13 Rollout Weeks, except for Q4, which
because of the required inactivity around Christmas, will have 11 Rollout
Weeks. However there will inevitably be some disruption: due to the increase in
Post Office business over the Christmas period, so it has been assumed that the
rollout can only proceed at half speed during the two weeks in December.

For Contingency planning, the Rollout will be targetted to complete by
November 1998.

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
Co Co Co eo lo

PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 4 of 11

1.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

18.

This plan assumes that there will be no gradual ramp up of the rollout rate, ie
from the 30th June 1997, the rollout will commence at a beat rate of 298
offices per week.

The following table summarises Quarters, dates and Rollout Weeks:

Quarter Dates Rollout Weeks
Q1/97 Jan-Mar 1997 0
Q2/97 Apr-Jun 1997 i}
Q3/97 Jul-Sep 1997 13
Q4/97 Oct-Dec 1997 11
Q1/98 Jan-Mar 1998 13
Q2/98 Apr-Jun 1998 13
Q3/98 Jul-Sep 1998 13
Q4/98 Oct-Dec 1998 4

From the above table, it is shown that there are 67 Rollout Weeks to complete
the Implementation.

From the Workload Brief, there are 39,301 Counters (aka PC’s) across 19,403
Post Offices. As stated above, there are 1,843 “Main” Post Offices - these
account for 10,568 Pcs, the remaining Post Offices (17,560) account for
28,733 counters.

The Implementation plan is divided into three Implementation Programmes
(IP’s), each of 67 Rollout Weeks duration, and each running concurrently.

The implementation totality (scope) is divided into 18 Implementation
Groupings (IG’s) which are spread across the three IP’s in accordance with the
table below.

The BA/POCL procurement team have identified 7 priority “Conurbations”,
which are accounted for in the plan; additionally there is an operational
requirement to automate the “main” Post Offices in a period of about 10
months to offer an acceptable nationwide Foreign Encashment Service for card
based benefit payees.

For operational purposes and to identify capacity figures, the IG’s are broadly
speaking, geographically based. Within constraints to be agreed with
BA/POCL, IP Managers will have discretion to deploy rollout teams to
complete the nominated IG’s in the scheduled timeframe. However, for
planning purposes, each IG shown in each IP below is listed in assumed priority
order.

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN

Date: 16/4/96
Page: 5 of 11

19.

20.

21.

The “M25” IG must be completed in the second half of the rollout.

The table of Implementation Groupings, their loose geographic area and their

IP responsibility, together with the number of Post Offices, and Counters are as
given below. The Main Post Office grouping is a nationwide distribution.

IG Area Description Qty PO’s Qty Counters IP
1 Main Post Offices 1843 10,568 1
2 West Midlands 488 799

3 Greater Manchester 556 910 3
4 Merseyside 227 371 2
5 Leeds & Bradford 332 543 3
6 Tyne & Wear 302 494 3
7 Glasgow & Edinburgh410 671

8 South Wales 1006 1646 2
9 M25 1252 2049 1
10 Northern Ireland 599 980 2
11 Scotland (ex IG7) 1231 2014 3
12 South West 2077 3399 2
13 South East 934 1528 2
14 East Anglia 1665 2724 2
15 South Central 1516 2481 3
16 Central 1962 3210 3
17 North Wales & MS 1116 1826 2
18 The North 1887 3088 3

The BA/POCL priority areas are IG2-IG8 inclusive, and these will be
completed in the first 4 months - ie, in 13 Rollout Weeks. IG1 must be

completed by end Q2/98 - ie, 42 Rollout Weeks.

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN

Date: 16/4/96
Page : 6 of 11

22.

22.

23.

The above data and assumptions give the following profiles for each of the

Implementation Programems:

Program Grouping (prioritised) RWKs POs/RWK____PCs/RWK
IPi
Pl. IG1 42 44 252
1P1.2 1G9 24 53 85
IP2
1P2.1 1G4}
1G2} 13 127. 217
IG8}
1P2.2 1G12}
1G13}
1G14} 53 123. 197
IG17}
1G10}*
* - may transfer to IP1
IP3
1P3.1 1G3}
IGS} 14 118 = 187
1G6}
IG7}
1P3.2 1G18}
1G16} 51 128 212
1G15}
1G11}

In the first 13 weeks (IP2/3 priority) IP1 will have processed 600 offices - these
are likely to be within the same IG’s as IP2 and 3 are operating.

The consequence of “starting” an Implementation Group (or the Operational
Trial) means users going Live; for this to happen, User Awareness, Training
and Site Preparation.for those sites must all have completed beforehand.

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN

Date: 16/4/96
Page : 7 of 11

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

24.

25.

26.

The assumptions regarding timescales for events leading up to Go Live (for
each Post Office) are as follows:

User Awareness Event Day - 50

Site Survey Day - 40

Site Preparation Day - 20

User Training Day -1 (or -2)
Counter Equipment Installation Day 0
Migration/Transition Day 0 (or Day +1)
Site Acceptance Day +1
Follow-Up Visit Day +2

PO Workload Planning Assumptions (by Supplier) PER WEEK, ie, the number
of Post Offices completed for that activity by man/team.
Week = 5 DAYS.

Small = 1 - 3 Positions
Medium = 4 - 8 Positions
Large = 8+

Note: ALL Medium and Large Post Offices will be handled by IP1.

Supplier Activity Small Medium Large

WTL Site Survey 10 10 10 Per Man
WIL Site Preparation 10 10 5 Per Team
Exel Delivery & Inst. 15 10 5 Per Team
Migration/Transition 15 10 5 Per Man

Given the above utilisation assumptions, and the PO Rollout /Week by
Implementation Group, the following men/team planning profiles can be
assumed:

rR POs/RWK__WTL Svy WTL Prep ___Exel Del M/T
44 4 9 9 9
33 5 5 5 5

2.1 127 13 13 13 13

2.2 123 12 12 12 12

3.1 118 12 12 12 12

3.2 128 13 13 13 13

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page: 8 of 11
27 There will be two months supply of consumables (receipt rolls and printer

28.

29.

ribbon) provided with each counter configuration and two months supply of A4
paper with each Back Office Printer. The consumables will be “shrink
wrapped” within each counter configuration box at D2D.

Exel Logistics will ensure a signed receipt is obtained from the Postmaster (or
authorised rep) for the delivered consumables.

There will be a number of offices which require a “Back Office PC” - these
offices are the existing ECCO offices (c.1000) and possibly as many as another
1000 large offices. WTL will identify in the survey process where a site is to
receive a “Back Office PC”. ALL such PC’s will be part of the IP1
implementation programme.

Attached Spreadsheet shows Volumes of Counter Positions (expressed as
PC’s), Post Offices and Benefit Cards per week, and cumulative figures for
each.

RWK I Actual Week (ISO)] PO's I PC's] Cum’ I Cum’ [Cards issued] Total Cards I Total Cards
Po's I PC's per per week
new PO.
1 I 27 (wre 30/66) I 260] 656 7289] 656I 19571 D) 0)
2 29 289] _ 656! 578] __ 1312] 19571 19571 19571
3 30 289] 656] 867 1968] 19571 39142] 58713)
4 31 289] 656] 1156] 2624] 19571 58713] 117426)
5 32 289] 656] 1445] 3280] 19571 78264) 195710}
6 33 289] 656] 1734I_ 3936] 19571 97855] 293565)
7 34 289] 656] 2023] 4592] 19571 117426] 410991
8 35 260] 656] 2312) 5248] 19571 136997, 547986)
9 36 289] 655] 2601] 5903] 19571 156568) 704556]
10 37 289] 655] 2890] 6558] 19571 176139] 880695]
1 38 289] _ 655] 3179] 7213] 19571 195710 1076405I
12 39 269] 655] 3468] 7868] 19571 215261[ 1291686
13 40 229] 655] 3757I 8523] 19571 234852[ 1526538]
14 are ‘204 637I 4051] 9160] 19801 254423I 1780961
15 42 204] 662! 4345] 9822] 19801 274224I 2055185]
16 43 204] 662 4639] 10484] 19801 294025I 2349210)
17 44 204] 662! 4933] 11146] 19801 313826] 2663036!
18 45 204] 662) 5227I 11808} 19801 333627) 2996663}
19 46 ‘204 662] 5521I_ 12470] 19801 353428] 3350091
20 a7 294) $815 _ 13132 19801 373229I 3723320]
21 48 204] 662] 6109] 13794] 19801 ‘393030 4116350)
2 49 147I_ 330) 6256] 14124] 9900 393260[ 4509610]
23 50 147I 330) 6403[ 14454] s900[ 383589] 4893199]
24 [Twi 301207) I 295 662] 6698I_ 15116] 19847I_-373918I 5267117
25 2 295] — 662] 6993] 15778] 19847I_-374194[_ 5641311)"
26 3 295] 662] 7288] 16440] 19847[____374470I___ 6015781
27 4 295[ 682] 7583I_ 17102] 19847 374746I_ 6390527
26 5 295] 661 7678I_17763] 19847I 375022] 6765549
2 6 295I 661 e173] _ 18424) 19847I_-375298[___7140847,
30 7 204I 661 '8467I 19085] 719801 375574I___7516421
31 8 204] “est ‘8761I_ 19746 19801 '375804I 7892225)
32 9 661 9065] 20407I 19801 '376034I 6268259]
33. 10 204] 660) 9349) __21067I 19801 376264] 8644523}
34 11 204 660) 9643] 21727I 19804 376494[ 9021017
35 12 204 660) 9937I 22387I 19801 376494[ 9397511
COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL
PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 9 of 11
RWK I Actual Week (ISO)I PO's [PC's] Cum’ I Cum] Cards I Total Cards] Total Cards
PO's I PC's I issued per I per week
new PO

36 13 234] 660 Toz31I 23047 19801] 376494] 9774006]
37 14 204) 660] 10525I 23707 19801 376494] 10150499]
38 15 294] 660] j0819I 24367I 19801] __376494I 10526993]
39 16 234) 660] 41113) 25027I 19801 376494I _ 10903487I
40 17 294] 660 11407] 25687I 19801] 376494] 11279981
at 18 2941660 11701] 26347] 19801] ___376494[—_11656475I
42 19 294] 660 11995I 27007] 19801] 376494] 12032969]
43 20 294] 660 12289I 27667I 19801] 386395] _ 12419364
44 21 303]_494 12592] 26161 13938] 396296] _ 12815660)
45 2 303] 494 12895I 28655] 13938 390387] _ 13206047
46 23 303I_ 494) 13198] 29149] 13938} 384478) 13590525]
47 24 302] _ 494) 13500} 29643} 13892) 378569] 13969094]
48 25 302I_ 493} 13802] 30136] 13892! 372614! 14341708)
49 26 302} 493} 14104] 30629] 13892) 366659) 14708367]
50 27 302] 493 1440631122] 13892I 360704] 15069071
51 28 302] 493 14708I 31615 13892I 354795] _ 15423866]
52 2 302I_493I 15010] 32108 13892I 348886] __ 15772752
53 30 302I_493I 15312] 32601 13892I 342977] _ 16115729]
54 ET 302] 493 15614] 33094 13892I 337068] 16452797]
55, 32 302I 493] 15916] 33587I 13892] 331159] 16783956]
56 33. W2I_ 493} 16218} 34080] 13892! 325250) 17109206]
57 4 302I_ 493) 16520] 34573] 13892} 319341 17428547]
58 35 302I_ 493} 16822} 35066] 13892} 313432) 17741979}
59 EY 302) _ 494) 17124] 35560] 13892} 307523) 18049502}
60 37 302) 494] 17426I 36054 13892I 301614] __ 18351116
61 38 302] 494] 17728I 36548 13892] 295705] 18646821
62 39 302] 494] 18030] 37042 13892I____289796I 18936617
6&3 40 301] 494) 18331] 37536] 13846} 283887) 19220504
64 41 300} 494) 18631} 38030] 13800} 277932! 19496436}
65 42 300] 494] 18931] 38524) 13800} 277794) 19776230}
66 Ex) 300} _ 494! 19231] 39018! 13800) 277656) 20053886}
67 44 172I_283I 19403] 39301 7912I __277518I 20331404
271538] 20602342]

257646I 20860588}

243754I 21104342]

229862I__ 21334204]

215970] 21550174]

202078] 21752252

188186) 21940433]

174294I 22114732]

160402I 22275134]

146510] 22421644]

132616] 22554262I

118726I 22672988

104834[ 22777822]

90942[ 22868764]

77050! 2294581 4]

63158I 23008972]

49312[ 23058284]

35512I 23093796]

21742[ 23115508}

7o12I__ 23123420]

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 10 of 11

COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE ROLLOUT GANTT CHART

APPENDIX A

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL Date: 16/4/96
COUNTER INFRASTRUCTURE PLAN Page : 11 of 11

plans sa Iece I oma I sunt I nan [a Lan {Ain feo Let Iter [ae_Laon Ten Er Lamon on Lm ep- [oe Thr 05< [an

1 IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM 1 324d I sorere7 I 13/10/98 ha v

2 Main Offices. 1 1843 210d ‘30/06/87 06/05/98

a] was 0 [ase I view I oroane I rarone

@

72] PLEMENTATION PROGRANT? sana I sonar I ions

Ta] werepatie a

7] Weatwidanas 2 [ae I we I vera I acer

ve] Sout was + [ieee] aoa] ota I oro

2 ‘South West 42 I 2077 eed 0210197 19/02/98

a3} sou on ca I vee I a I 2onane I re

33] east angi ie [wees I ara] tamer I care

Zo I Wert Waies ws a [wie I a I anor] Tare

a7 I WoRTERN RELANS wo I wo] mea] vamaneY aine

Ey

3 I mpcementaTion PROORAN waza sue I Taos

33 I ereatoranchostor 2 [me I mee I sonar I err

a7 I eedatratord oma I aaa smn I ana

aa] Tyre 8 iar a

3 I Otegowaeburgn 7 [aw ara I carer I sar

6 ‘The North 18 I 1687 790 ‘On orsT 05/02/98

Co) ‘Central 16 I 1962 764 06/02/98 22103198

7] south Comat we [rare I ara zeae I sae

I Sentara a [an I aed I vaoane I earone

COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

Appendix 3

Assumptions and Dependencies

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0
Page 1 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996
To eo wm mH oe oe

J

{ ceme F O  I

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

Key Volume Assumptions

The following are the key Peritas volume assumptions. For more detail please refer to
the individual work packages 1 - 9. These assumptions are based on information from
the Pathway Implementation Plan Version 5 and the POCL Workload Brief Version
5.3.

1. 67,021 POCL staff to receive user awareness and training

2. 500 BA Trainers attend a train the trainer event to deliver variant of

awareness event and incorporate counter automation implication into
internal BA Training programmes.

3. POCL User Awareness attendance:

+ Maximum 100 attendees per event, although in rural areas, and in Highlands and
Islands it may not be possible to include that many people at one time due to lack
of people or their availability.

4. Training course attendance sized at an average of 6.

5. 9,211 Crown PO Staff

6. 2,289 Systems Managers at 763 Crown Post Offices

7. 57,810 Sub Post Office staff

8. Staff turnover/Post Office relocation notifications are notified via the steady state
MIS system and will be handled as events under work package 8.

9. 150 Help Desk Staff

10. 70 POCL Trainers to be trained
11. 500 BA Trainers to be trained
12. 7 Back Office Audit Staff

13, All course lengths, which are key to the development and delivery packages, are
subject to formal agreement with POCL.

14. All Peritas project staff and premises will be based in the North West of England.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0
Page 2 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996 \
PERITAS

PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

Dependencies

MIS Interface between Peritas and Pathway is agreed.
Calls can be transferred between Peritas and Pathway Help Desks.

Pathway make available 3 counter servers and associated peripherals on 22.07.96 to
Peritas.

Pathway provide 42 training sets each comprising 6 counter terminal systems
(including PC and receipt printer), 1 A4 page printer, Associated peripherals, 1 set
of Post Office scales.

Pathway ensure BA and POCL nominate programme sponsors at the right level.

Pathway ensure the Management of Change Steering Group is set up.

Pathway gain agreement that POCL/BA provide mangers to co-facilitate User
Awareness events.

Pathway gain agreement that POCL/BA provide liaison staff for all key work
package deliverables.

POCL regional office will notify Pathway of staff under the competence level
within 5 days of go live. Pathway will notify Peritas of excessive support calls
within 5 working days of the sample period containing the excess.

Pathway agree training measures with POCL/BA which are acceptable to Peritas in
order that we mest the expected performance levels - specifically course appraisal
format and questions, analysis method, competence test contents.

Pathway software functionality and reliability is stable for development.

Pathway do not change current implementation plan without consulting Peritas for
impact input under change contro! Schedule F.

Pathway ensure training mode is provided to an acceptable level to Peritas and
POCL.

Terms of Reference for all roles can be agreed with the BA/POCL.

BA/POCL adhere to reasonable sign off procedures and timescales

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0

Page 3 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

Pathway are responsible for the provision of additional events to cater for staff
turnover which Peritas will undertake on their behalf. :

Pathway accept responsibility for attendance levels on the training courses and User
Awareness events by ensuring POCL and BA make best endeavours to
communicate that they are mandatory.

Pathway make implementation plan available electronically.

WTL site survey identifies staff and also checks their P13 status and confirms
release rates. Peritas to input site survey process and programme.

POCL/BA/Pathway ensure people are available for the dry run of any events.

Insurance of Pathway Systems provided for training purposes is the responsibility
of Pathway.

Pathway must agree with POCL that the awareness event, training course and
workbook consolidation are mandatory for all staff for Peritas to meet performance
criteria for competency test.

Peritas have authority to recommend a delay to the “Go Live” date where staff
deemed not competent and remedial training required; where Pathway ignores a

reasonable recommendation, Peritas shall not be liable.

POCL / BA agree Peritas development methodology and standards.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0

Page 4 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489

PERITAS
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001

APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

Peritas Key Dependencies on Pathway
1. Information Interchange

The completion of the implementation programme has a critical dependency on the
timely interchange of information between the various contractors and Pathway
programmes. From the perspective of Peritas the sole source of data interchange is the
Pathway Implementation Programmes Office, with data interchange having a
maximum lag of 12 hours from real time. The mechanism envisaged would be file
transfer with detailed file specifications to be agreed. The timing and nature of the
required interchanges is as follows:

Days are 5 working day weeks relative to counter installation.

Day No. From To Information transferred

-90 PATH PER Post Office details within implementation locations
-85 PER PATH Awareness schedule for location

~82 PER PO Invitations to awareness events issued to post masters
-81 PER PATH Post Office bookings for awareness schedule

-60 PER PATH Awareness attendance feedback

-55 PATH WTL ***Site Surveys may start

35 WTL PATH = ***Site Surveys Feedback

-30 PATH PER Staff details from Site Survey

-26 PER PATH Training schedule for location

-23 PER PO Invitations to training events

-22 PER PATH PO training schedules allocations

-12 PER PO Joining instructions for PO staff

-1l PER PATH Schedule adjustments

-3thru-1 PER PATH Training attendance details

-2thru-2 Help desk support

0 Installation

2 PER PO Competence test schedule confirmed

3 In-store Support/Competence testing(user acceptance)
3 PER PATH _ User acceptance results

+40n PATH PER Postmaster/premises/staff turnover notifications
+40n PATH PER Postmaster/premises/staff turnover trained

notifications
23 Retail Network Manager/Area Review POCL
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0
Page 5 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES -

2. Equipment for Training
Provision of systems for delivery of training is the primary constraint to the throughput
of the training programme. To achieve a maximum concurrency of up to 36 events/day
i.e. 216 trainees would require the following provision:
Per event
+ 6 Counter terminal systems 5
+ 2 Counter printers
+ 1 A4 page printer
- Associated peripherals
1 set of Post Office Scales
Roll out concurrency
+ 1 Training system for each event day at a specified location
+ 6 Training systems in transit or in maintenance
Total

+ 42 systems

Schedules requiring >36 events on any one day are available subject to the temporary
loan of additional systems from Pathway.

An increase in the roll out rate of up to 46 events/day may be achieved subject to the
supply of an additional 6 counter servers/2 printers per event.

Insurance of Pathway Systems provided for training purposes is the responsibility of
Pathway

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0
Page 6 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
PATHWAY/PERITAS PURCHASE AGREEMENT REF NO PE001
APPENDIX 3 - ASSUMPTIONS AND DEPENDENCIES

3. Access to Information

The development of accurate and relevant courseware is dependent on Peritas being
considered as an integrated function within the Pathway development environment:

+ Inclusion of Peritas development group within the validation distribution list for all
Pathway counter & back office application

+ Receipt of all user applications documentation issued for comment (both counter
and back office)

4. Delegation to attend implementation reviews

In order to ensure the optimum use of personnel the Peritas project manager may
delegate responsibility for attendance at the Pathway Implementation Programme
review, such delegation will not be made for more than one successive review without
prior agreement by the Pathway Implementation programme manager.

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Version 4.0
Page 7 of 7 © Peritas Ltd 15 July 1996

FUJ00120489
FUJ00120489
— —
