Fujitsu Services

Service Management Service : Service Description Ref:
Version:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

CS/SER/014
1.0
31-Dec-2002

FUJ00001746
FUJ00001746

Document Title:

Document Type:

Service Management Service; Service Description

Service Description

Release: Release Independent

Abstract: Service description for Service Management Service
Document Status: APPROVED

Originator & Dept: Martin Riddell

Contributors:

Customer Service, Pathway, Fujitsu Services

Reg Barton

Internal Distribution:

External Distribution:

Approval Authorities:

Jame Position Signature Date
Martin Riddell (CS Director, Pathway
ILiz Tuddenham Supplier & Servic
Performance Manager, Pos!
(Office
© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: I of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746
FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/O14
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002
0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History
\Version No. {Date Reason for Issue (Associated
(CP/PinICL
1.0 21 Dec 2002 [Definitive
1.0a 23 Dec 2002 [Mason’s comments on “Definitive” version
1.0b 24 Dec 2002 Includes comments from Liz Tuddenham.
For final approval.
0.2 Review Details
Mandatory Review Authority Name
[Don Grey
julian White
Richard Brunskill
[Peter Burden
Optional Review / Issued for Information
( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments
0.3. Associated Documents
Reference ersion [Date Title Source
ICS/SER/016 1.0 21 Dec 02 Service Description for theFujitsu Services

‘Security Management Service

IPA/STR/003 Pathway Release Policy’ IFujitsu Services

lVI/POL/001 (General Testing Policy [Fujitsu Services

\VI/STR/0O1 [Testing and —_IntegrationFujitsu Services
Strategy

ICS/IFS/008 IInterface Agreement for theFujitsu Services
Problem Management
Interface

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 2 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746
Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002
(CS/PRD/081 End to End  Customercs/PRD/081
‘Complaints Procedure
CS/PRD/058 10.0 [20 Dec 02 Fujitsu Services (Pathway)Fujitsu Services

iLtd/Post Office Ltd Interface
‘Agreement for Operationa
Business I Change-Reference
Data

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms have the following meanings:

[Abbreviation Definition

0.5 Changes in this Version

\Version (Changes

0.6 Changes Expected

\Changes

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 3 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746
FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 4 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014
Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 SERVICE SUMMARY...
2.0 SERVICE PRINCIPLEGS....
3.0 SERVICE DEFINITION...

3.1 FUJITSU SERVICE ORGANISATION.
3.2. POST OFFICE ORGANISATION...
3.3. STRUCTURE OF SERVICE MANAGEMENT FORUM.
3.4 RELEASE INTRODUCTION
3.5 PROBLEM AND COMPLAINT MANAGEMENT.
3.6 MEASUREMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF SATISFACTION.

4.0 SERVICE AVAILABILITY.
4.1 GENERAL...... esse
5.0 SERVICE TARGETS AND LIMITS.
5.1 GENERAL - 9
6.0 SERVICE DEPENDENCIES.

ain

CoO Mm IY

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 1
(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

1.0 Service Summary

11

LL

General

The objectives of the Service Management Service are to monitor, manage and
maintain the delivery of the Operational Services and to report on the same to the
Service Management Forum. This Service Description details the specific
components of key service management activities. The significance of the detailed
activities may vary over the life of the agreement. The Service Management
Service comprises the following service components;

a) Service Organisation,

b) Structure of the Service Review Forum.
c) Release Introduction

d) Management of problems and complaints

e) Measurement and management of customer satisfaction.

2.0 Service Principles

2.1

2.1.1

General

The following service principles will apply in the provision of this service;

a) Post Office and Fujitsu Services will use all reasonable endeavours to ensure the
principle of ‘working together’ is applied to the management of all Services.

b) Post Office and Fujitsu Services will undertake a joint review to identify
opportunities for elimination of duplicated effort and to rationalise processes.

3.0 Service Definition

3.1

3.1.1

Fujitsu Service Organisation

Fujitsu Services and Post Office shall utilise the governance procedures defined in
Schedule 4 to manage the delivery of the Service. Certain key roles to support the
Service Management Forum are identified in this document. The specific
individuals to fulfil the roles identified in the organisation structure shall be
communicated in writing between the Parties to this Agreement from time to time.

The key roles and responsibilities within the Fujitsu Services organisation specific
to the delivery of the Operational Services are detailed below. One person may

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

perform more than one of these roles, and one role may be performed by different
people in relation to different Applications or Services.

The Customer Service Director shall have responsibility for all aspects of delivery
of the Services. He shall be responsible for building a strategic relationship with the
Head of Network Support within Post Office with an emphasis on the requirements
of the Operational Services. The Customer Service Director shall attend the
meetings of the Service Management Forum.

The Infrastructure Service Manager shall have responsibility for delivery of the
support services to Branches, management information and the reporting of
Service Levels as defined in Schedule 15. The Infrastructure Service Manager shall
attend the Service Review Forum. The Infrastructure Service Manager shall
specifically be responsible for

provision of monthly service reports as described below;
a) maintenance of Service Levels for Branch Services;

b) management of Service Improvement Plans in collaboration with the Post
Office;

c) the Technical Service Desk

d) liaison with Post Office Supplier & Service Performance Manager in respect of
the overall performance of services.

The Operations and Support Manager shall be responsible for the delivery of
services associated with data delivery and support. The Operations and Support
Manager shall attend the Service Review Forum as required. The Operations and
Support Manager shall be specifically responsible for

a) all aspects of data centre operations including availability management,
network management, systems management and technical interfaces with Post
Office Clients and other domains;

b) maintenance and management of Business Continuity plans;

¢) achievement of data delivery and availability Service Levels.

The Fujitsu Services Security Manager shall be responsible for the Security
Management Service. The Fujitsu Services Security Manager shall attend the
Service Management Forum as required. The Fujitsu Services Security Manager
shall be specifically responsible for ;

a) Co-operating with the Post Office Information Security Manager in the
development of Post Office’s network banking automation security policy and
all operational security matters as may be agreed from time to time, including
all aspects of secure material handling procedures.

b) All service components as detailed in the CCD entitled “Service Description for
the Security Management Service” (CS/SER/016)

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

The Fujitsu Services Service Introduction Manager shall be responsible for
planning and managing the implementation of all Releases in accordance with
overall strategy agreed in the Demand Planning Forum (as described in Schedule
4). The Services Introduction Manager shall attend the Service Management
Forum as required. The Service Introduction Manager is responsible for the
management of the Release introduction element of, the Service Management
Service and shall be specifically responsible for;

a) Planning and managing the implementation phase of all Releases as defined in
the CCD entitled ‘Pathway Release Strategy’ (PA/STR/003).

b) Keeping the Post Office informed of the content and progress all Releases.

3.2 Post Office Organisation

3.2.1

3.2.2

3.2.3

The roles and responsibilities of Post Office specific to the Service Management
Services are detailed below. One person may perform more than one of these
roles, and one role may be performed by different people in relation to different
Applications.

The Post Office Head of Network Support is the individual responsible for the
business that the Services support. The Head of Network Support shall attend the
meetings of the Service Management Forum.

The Post Office Supplier & Service Performance Manager shall be responsible for
the liaison with Fujitsu Services in respect of the overall performance of services.
The Post Office Supplier & Service Performance Manager shall provide a point of
contact with Fujitsu Services and shall specifically be responsible for:

a) monitoring delivered Service Levels;
b) receipt and analysis of Fujitsu Services’ monthly service Reports
c) briefing the Post Office Head of Network Support in advance of the Service

Management Forum meetings

d) briefing the Post Office attendees of the Service Management Forum in
advance of the meetings;

e) facilitating joint quality initiatives with Fujitsu Services;
¢) representing (including at Service Management Forum meetings) and providing

an interface with Post Office’s third party suppliers (including, without
limitation, the suppliers involved in providing End to End Banking), and Banks.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FU.

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

FUJ00001746
}J00001746

3.2.4

3.2.5

The Post Office Service Operations Manager_shall be responsible for liaison with
Fujitsu Services in respect of issues and problems occurring in the live estate.

The Post Office Information Security Manager shall be responsible (but may
nominate a representative to act on his behalf) for:

a) establishing Post Office's network banking automation security policy as
specified in paragraph 7.3.1 of Schedule 2 (Policies and Standards)

b) agreeing the Fujitsu Services’ revised security policy as specified in paragraph
7.3.2 of Schedule 2 (Policies and Standards);

c) from time to time communicating to the Fujitsu Services' Information Security
Manager the identity of the persons authorised to receive sensitive security-
related material (including cryptographic key components) on behalf of
Post Office;

d) receiving from the Fujitsu Services’ Information Security Manager the identity
of the persons authorised to receive such security-related material on
behalf of Fujitsu Services;

e) liasing with the Fujitsu Services' Information Security Manager in the manner
described in the CCD entitled "Security Incident Management" paragraph
7.4.2 of Schedule 2 (Policies and Standards);

f) liasing with the Fujitsu Services' Information Security Manager and security
representatives of other parties involved in the End to End Banking on
such security-related matters as shall be agreed from time to time.

3.3 Structure of Service Management Forum

3.3.1

3.3.2

3.3.3

The Post Office Head of Network Support and Fujitsu Service Customer Service
Director shall meet every month (or otherwise agreed by both parties) to review
performance against Service Level Targets and issues and problems escalated to
the Service Management Forum.

Other staff from Fujitsu Services and Post Office may attend this forum at the
request of Fujitsu Services or Post Office to resolve or input to particular matters
on the agenda.

A typical agenda for such a meeting may include, without limitation;

a) approval of minutes from previous meetings.

b) review of the Service Review Book

c) highlights of the previous period’s statistics, concentrating on failures
to meet Service targets, including major issues and problems escalated to the
Service Management Forum, and any service trends.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746
Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014
Version: 1.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002
d) Review of input from joint operational forums. These forums will deal

with operational matters for specific operational areas (eg Reference Data, help-
desks). The requirement for specific forums will be agreed between Post Office
and Fujitsu Services.

e) explanation of unresolved issues and problems and, in particular, any
matters still outstanding.

f) review of ongoing actions, such as fault correction, agreed changes and
any Post Office related work.

g) change management progress report

h) suggestions for service improvements

i) advance notification of major changes and new work and review of the
impact these may have on live operations

j) capacity management issues and changes

k) any implementation requirements arising from new projects or services

1) review of customer satisfaction scorecards and improvement plans.

3.4 Release Introduction.

3.4.1 Release Introduction will be carried out in accordance with the CCD entitled
“Pathway Release Policy’ (PA/STR/003). The CCD will contain the following
information;

a) Release Definition and classification

b) Roles, responsibilities and authorisation levels of the various review boards as
documented within Schedule 4.

c) Change Control Procedures

d) Emergency procedures

e) Release scheduling
Release authorisation

g) Provision of management information

3.4.2 Release Principles
Post Office require that Fujitsu Services shall undertake the delivery of the Services
to meet demanding business requirements. Failure to meet contracted performance
targets will incur performance penalties. In order to deliver Services which meet the
contracted requirements and performance levels at an economic price it is essential
that Fujitsu Services is empowered to manage all aspects of Service delivery and
this must include the control of new Releases. Fujitsu Services recognises that Post

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

3.43

3.4.4

3.4.5

Office has a legitimate interest in the business functions that are provided by the
Service and needs to be assured that the quality of the delivered systems meets the
contracted requirements. The processes, tests and quality reviews which are
required will be open to Post Office and Fujitsu Services will particularly seek
active participation in tests of business functionality and the Human Computer
Interface. It is recommended that Fujitsu Services take complete responsibility for
the management of Releases in line with the contractual commitments requested by
Post Office.

Release Contents

Fujitsu Services recommends that the content of a Release should require the
agreement of Post Office with respect to the introduction of new Services or the
deletion of existing Services or changes to existing Services which affect the
essential business functions of Post Office. All such changes to Services should be
initiated through the Change Control Procedure.

For the reasons which are set out above Fujitsu Services should retain clear
responsibility for all other changes to Release Contents. Such changes may be
justified for many reasons but including for example: contract compliance, quality,
technical strategy and cost control.

Release Distribution Timing

There shall be only two circumstances when Post Office should determine the
timing of the distribution of new Releases. One is when a new Client is connected to
the Service for the first time, and the other is where a major new service is being
introduced which Post Office needs to manage (e.g. NBS). In all other
circumstances the control of the distribution of Releases should be at the discretion
of Fujitsu Services.

Release Activation Timing

Fujitsu Services recommends that the timing of Release activation should require
the agreement of Post Office with respect to the introduction of new Services or the
deletion of existing Services or changes to existing Services which affect the
essential business functions of Post Office. This includes the release of Reference
Data as detailed in the CCD entitled ‘Fujitsu Services (Pathway) Ltd/Post Office
Ltd Interface Agreement for Operational Business Change-Reference Data’
(CS/PRD/058). All such changes to the Services should be initiated through the
Change Control Procedure and it is anticipated that any particular favourable or
unfavourable times for the activation of Releases will be declared in the change
request.

Fujitsu Services believes that in all other circumstances the responsibility for the
timing of the activation of new Releases should be at the discretion of Fujitsu
Services.

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

3.4.6

3.4.7

3.4.8

Release Testing

Fujitsu Services will provide evidence that each Release has been tested so that it is
shown to meet the Service requirements and Service Levels. Post Office will be
invited to participate in those tests associated with proving business functionality
and Human Computer Interface aspects of new Releases. Other evidence will be
provided in the form of written test reports and invitations to attend quality review
meetings. Evidence of testing for major Releases of new software and functionality
will be provided at the levels of:

Unit Tests
System Test
Representative combinations of hardware and software.

The release testing strategy above is too heavy for testing minor Releases of
software or for Reference Data and appropriate procedures will be defined for
different classes of Release.

Such testing shall be carried out in accordance with the CCDs “General Testing
Policy” (VI/POL/001) and “Testing and Integration Strategy” (VI/STR/001).

Preparation for Release

Fujitsu Services will complete the testing of major new Releases in three steps prior
to full distribution of major new Releases. These are:

e A Test conducted in a simulated branch and operated by real and
representative Post Office users.

¢ A test of implementation and live operation in a limited number of Branches
for a limited period before general distribution.

e A test of reversion to the previous Release.

The release testing strategy above is too heavy for testing minor Releases of
software or for Reference Data and appropriate procedures will be defined by
Fujitsu Services for different classes of Release.

Fujitsu Services shall provide proof of sufficient and satisfactory preparation for the
implementation of a Release. This shall include testing the implementation,
reversion, regression from the Release, and the support of any testing by Post
Office.

Release Planning

In respect of each Release Fujitsu Services shall provide a release plan, for
agreement by the parties prior to the Release, documenting how the parties intend
the Release be deployed in Branches and assessing the risk to and impact on the
Services. The release plan shall include details of the matters referred to in
paragraph 3.4.9 of this schedule together with details of agreed timescales or
periods (if any) during which the Fujitsu Services may revert to the previous
Release. The parties acknowledge that during deployment of most Releases, there is

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

3.4.9

3.4.10

3.4.11

3.4.12

3.4.13

a point beyond which it is impractical to revert to the previous Release and,
accordingly, the release plan will also document the parties’ agreement on the stage
at which this point will arise (if at all).

Release Approval

The following shall be approved by Post Office before any Release, this approval
not being unreasonably withheld:

a) the contents of any Release;
b) _ the upgrade path for any Release;
c) _ the timing of the distribution of any Release;

d) _ the timing of the activation of any Release.

No Disruption to Users and the Working Environment

Releases of software and and/or Reference Data will be distributed across the
network and therefore will require minimal user involvement and no significant
disruption to Users or to the working environment.

No Corruption to Post Office Data

The data within software and/or Reference Data is protected at source by a CRC
check key which is applied by the Riposte system. Following distribution of the
Release, the CRC is checked to ensure that no corruption of the data has taken
place. The Release of software and/or Reference Data will not cause any corruption
to data held on behalf of Post Office.

Record of Releases

A record of the Release of software and Reference Data which is in use at each
Branch will be maintained under configuration control within an asset database
which is maintained by Fujitsu Services.

Availability in Branches

Fujitsu Services shall be permitted to suspend availability in the Branches of the
NBS and/or any of the Applications (other than NBS) or Infrastructure Services
outside the Post Office Core Day, at such times and for such periods of time as
agreed in advance with Post Office (such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld) in connection with implementation in Branches of each major Release.

3.5 Problem and Complaint Management

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FU.

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

FUJ00001746
}J00001746

3.5.2

3.5.3

3.6

3.6.1

3.6.2

3.6.3

3.6.4

Fujitsu Services will provide a Duty Manager who be a single point of contact for
any operational or service related issues

A dedicated problem manager within Fujitsu Services will have overall
responsibility for the integrity of the process, liaison with Post Office and
management of individual service managers who manage individual problems. This
will be provided in conformance to the CCD entitled “Interface Agreement for the
Problem Management Interface”. (CS/IFS/008).

For the avoidance of doubt, the following types of problems (with the exception of
investigation of equipment and electrical supply health and safety issues) will now
be excluded from the scope of Fujitsu Services’ problem management activity and
Fujitsu Services shall have no obligations relating to the management of such
problems;

a) Investigating and managing the resolution of exceptional volumes of incidents
experienced by individual Branches.

b) Investigating and gathering information on problems across Branches.

c) Acting as on-site Project manager for complex OBC changes to marshal
resources and reduce risk.

d) Detailed investigation of individual complaints from branches

e) Investigation of issues where the financial integrity of the Horizon system at an
individual Branch has been put in doubt by end-user claims of lost transactions,
lost stock or cash account misbalance.

f) Monitoring of Branches that have recently experienced multiple incidents and
problems.

Fujitsu Services will manage a complaint procedure as documented in the working
document entitled ‘End to End Customer Complaints Procedure’ (CS/PRD/081).

Measurement and Management of Satisfaction

Fujitsu Services and Post Office will measure satisfaction at regular intervals by
means of the scorecard mechanism.

Fujitsu Services and Post Office will agree the service areas to be measured and the
scoring and importance criteria. Where there is a disparity between the Post Office
scoring definitions and the Fujitsu Services definitions and no agreement can be
reached between the parties then the Post Office scoring definition will be used and
a mapping to Fujitsu Services definitions will be agreed.

Where the Parties agree Fujitsu Services will provide an appropriate service
improvement plan. Post Office will provide clear guidance, as an input to this plan,
actions it would expect Fujitsu Services to complete to attain a target score, such
actions to be within the scope of the current service.

Fujitsu Services will report on progress against the service improvement plans

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
FUJ00001746

FUJ00001746

Fujitsu Services Service Management Service : Service Description Ref: CS/SER/014

Version: 1.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 31-Dec-2002

created under paragraph 3.6.3 above within the Service Review Book.

4.0 Service Availability

4.1 General

4.1.1 All elements of the Service Management Services are available Monday-Friday
09:00-17:30 excluding Bank Holidays and English public holidays, with the
following exceptions;
a) Release Introduction activities such as data centre migration or software

distribution will be carried out in accordance with relevant project plans.

b) Duty management is available 24 hours a day, every day of the year.

5.0 Service Targets and Limits.

5.1 General

SLA There are no service targets associated with this service. Limits associated with
software distribution as part of release management are documented in the CCD
entitled ‘Service Description for Systems Management Service’ (CS/SER/008).

6.0 Service Dependencies

6.1.1 From time to time, Fujitsu Services and Post Office shall advise each other of the
names of the individuals fulfilling the roles defined within this document.

6.1.2 Post Office shall:
a) manage; and
b) liaise with Branches as necessary to enable resolution of,
problems of the types described in sub-paragraphs 3.5.2 (a) to (f) of this document
(other than those relating to health and safety issues regarding equipment and
electrical supply).

© 2002 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 1

(CONTRACT CONTROLLED - Leave Blank if Not Applicable)
