FUJ00152988
FUJ00152988

1

a Doi oe wg .

Thomas Penny

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 25 February 2010 09:34

To: jarnail.a.singI

Ce: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH
2010

Jarnail,

Sorry for the delay in replying. Things were rather hectic on Tuesday and I had a day
of leave yesterday, but I note that you are chasing me as this is urgent.

I don't have any detailed notes of my discussions with Charles.

Basically what we did was to go through his two reports (actually 2nd and 3rd report -
I've not seen the first report!) and my comments on them.

I also explained to him some of how Horizon works and why this means that some of his
hypotheses were invalid. I also pointed out that in order to identify exactly what
was happening, then it would be necessary to go through the detailed logs of the
elevant times and that as far as I was aware, no request had been made for any such
1ogs (though I think they may now have been requested).

I told him that if we looked at the logs that we would be able to confirm whether or
not the scenario in Falkirk applied, but I thought it was unlikely. T also described
my understanding of the scenario in Mrs Norris's witness statement as being
irrelevant, though also said that I had not been given any written description of
exactly what her problem was.

I hope that covers what you need.
POH-3498D

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
“ovelace Ro,
el:

Mobile:
email:
Web:

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

{mailto:jarnail.a.singl

To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

Dear Gareth,

Thank you for your E-Mail. TI am happy to note that you had a lengthy discussion with

1
FUJ00152988
FUJ00152988

~ of
tHé Defence Expert Charles McLachlan on Friday 12th February 2010.
This sounds very positive and should be grateful if would kindly please let me have
your detailed attendance note as to the matters and issues discussed, this will assist
me greatly to move this matter forward.

Thank you again for your kind assistance.

Regards.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

To:

ce:
Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA

sUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL TRIAL - 15TH MARCH
22/02/2010 15:26 2010

Jarnail,

I had a lengthy phone discussion with Charles McLachlan (not Alistair) on Friday 12th
Feb (about 90 mins in total).

I've not heard anything from him since, but said that I was available if required.
Are you saying he might want a further meeting?

Regards

Gareth

Sareth Jenkins

istinguished Engineer

Applications Architect

Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU

Lovelace Road, Bracknell,
Tel r

Internal:

(Note new external number -
old number will not work after 31/12/2009)
Internal:

Web: http: /7uk. fujitsw, com

P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker
Street, London, W1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
FUJ00152988
FUJ00152988

aot Original Message
From: jarnail.a.singhi
[mailto! GRO i
Sent: 22°F
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

Dear Mr Jenkins,

Thank you for providing two witness statements in this case. I have given your
details to the Defence Expert Alistair McLachlan to contact you with a view to
discussing the issues in the case further and analysing the data as discussed. I
should be grateful if you would please confirm whether he has been in touch with you
and that you have arranged a mutually convenient time for the meeting. It is
important that this is done as soon as possible in view fo the trial date of 15th
March 2010 at Guildford Crown Court.

If I can assist in any way please do not hesitate to contact me.

Kind regards.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer

fximinal
Tel.No:
Fax.No:

FOI ISI I III ISI III ISIS SIGI IIIS ISIC GIGI I ICICI III I ISIE ee tea eae

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system.
JORG IOUS GEES OSGI ISIS SIS STIS IG HIGGS ISG ISSN SG IGE ISIS SISO Gr

FOI III II III IOI CII III IOI ISIC III III GIGI I I I EI i teeta

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ

fhis email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute. the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system.
SESE ECCI SSS SUC SO GEIS CRISES SESE IEE IEE IIE ISIE tb
