FUJ00156097
FUJ00156097

From: Thomas Penny[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: Fri 05/02/2010 1:12:07 PM (UTC)

To: Jones David M[David.Jones! ~ a

Subject: I FW: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi

David

Thanks, again, for your time this morning.
Please find below the request received via POL for the defence to interview our expert for the Porters Avenue case.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas

Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks RG12 8SN

Web: _ http://uk.fujitsu

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

riginal Messai
From: jane.m.owen
Sent: 11 January 2010 14:29
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: Fw: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi

Hello Penny

How is the weather? We have had a slight thaw but our side roads are still
treacherous and we had to have a push on Saturday coming out of the
supermarket.

Could you please see the attached email from our solicitors, will this fall
into the "expert witness statement" category?

Perhaps this is something that we could cover off at our meeting next week
and then I have a better understanding of what I am asking you for.

Kind regards

Jane
Jane Owen (Embedded
Security Team Advisor image moved

Security Team, Post Office Ltd to file:
pic17803.gif)

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic01381 .gif)Royal Mail, Clippers
House, 3rd Floor, Clippers Quay,
SALFORD. M50 3NW

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic03136.gif
jane.m.ower
(Embedded image moved to file:
pic19837 gif)

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic28378.gif)Post Office HR Help

(Embedded image moved to file:
pic02483.gif)

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole
use of the intended recipient(s)
and may contain confidential and
privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use,
disclosure or distribution is
prohibited. If you are not the
intended recipient please contact
me by reply email and destroy all
copies of the original message.

----- Forwarded by Jane M Owen/e/POSTOFFICE on 11/01/2010 14:07 -----

Juliet McFarlane
To: jane.m.ower,
08/01/2010 15:55 ce:
Subject: Fw: Requests for access re: Jerry Kwami Hosi

Jane

Further to our telephone conversation, please note Charles McLachlan's
request below. Could you liaise with the appropriate person at Fujitsu and
ask them to make contact with Charles.

Regards
Juliet

Juliet McFarlane

Principal Lawyer

Royal MailCompany Secretary's Office
Legal Services

Criminal Law Team

FUJ00156097
FUJ00156097
FUJ00156097
FUJ00156097

"Juliet Mcfarlane" <juliet.mcfarlai

<Jeffrey.Davidsor,
>

08/01/2010 14:32 Subject: Requests for access re: Hosi

Please respond to

charles.mclachlan

-
» "Karol Hart"

GRO

Dear Juliet McFarlane,
Thank you for your time on the phone this morning.

I appreciate your agreement to assist me as the IT expert instructed in
this case to obtain from the Post Office or their Horizon system service
providers Fujitsu:

1. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss how to
access an unencrypted version of the transaction files held on the
sub-post office terminals related to the Hosi case.

2. Access to the appropriate person with whom I can discuss the
structure of the transaction files, the mechanisms by which they are
synchronized with the central system and the records held centrally.

3. An unencrypted copy of full transaction log of the sub-post office
terminals related to the Hosi case.

4. An unencrypted copy of the corresponding records held by the central
system

I am happy for the relevant person to contact me direct using my e-mail or
mobile phone number in the first instance.

As I am sure you will appreciate, Jeffrey Davidson, in his accountant's
expert report, has identified some unusual features in the pattern of
accounting discrepancies, and in the limited window available before 2nd
February, time is of the essence in investigating whether these unusual
features relate to the actual pattern of underlying transactions and
possible system problems.

Yours,

Charles McLachlan

Director

Amsphere Consulting Ltd

90 Fenchurch Street

London EC3M 4BY

United Kingdom

E-mail : charles.mclachlan_
Web : www.amsphere.com
Amsphere Limited is a Carbon Offset Partner of Pure: The Clean Planet
Trust. We have offset all of the carbon emissions associated with our
business activities

P Please consider the environment before printing this email

The information in this e-mail and any attachment(s) is confidential and
may be legally privileged. This e-mail is intended solely for the
addressee. If you are not the addressee, dissemination, copying or other
use of this e-mail or any of its content is strictly prohibited and may be
unlawful. If you are not the intended recipient please inform the sender
immediately and destroy the e-mail and any copies. All liability for
viruses is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law. Any views
expressed in this message are those of the individual sender. No contract
may be construed by this e-mail.

JI IRI AISI RII III III IIIT I ISI ASIII DSI ASI SOI SSSI SOS I ISCO ISOS IO

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

FUJ00156097
FUJ00156097
