Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Date: 12/09/2005

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Rollover and
Stock Processing

High Level Design
S80

This document describes the high-level design for the Horizon
Counter Application Accounting Model and its Implementation
for IMPACT Release 3.

APPROVED
Roger Donato, ST

SI: Chris Bailey, Duncan McDonald, Walter Wright,
Martin McConnell, Phil Orton, Peter Jobson,
Roger York, Martin Nixon

ASS: Gareth Jenkins
Internal Distribution:
External Distribution:
Approval Authorities:
Name Position Signature Date
Gareth Jenkins ASS Design Authority

Andy Kennedy

DU Development Manager

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 1 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref:

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

EA/HLD/005

2.0
12/09/2005

0.0 Document Control

0.1 Document History

Version No.

Date

Reason for Issue

Associated
CP/PinICL

0.1

04/06/04

First Draft

0.2

22/06/04

Second Draft, incorporates informal review
comments from Gareth Jenkins, makes minor
refinements to the content and layout of version 0.1
as a result of continuous improvement.

Introduces the second set of design changes;
Introduction of Aggregation Engine for Volume
Stock (5.1.3) and Appendix E- EPOSS Accounting
Node Structure

0.3

02/07/04

Third Draft. Introduces the third set of design
changes Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers
(6.1.2).

Informal review comments on version 0.2, from
Peter Jobson, Gareth Jenkins and Martin McConnell,
have not yet been incorporated in this version

0.4

29/07/04

Fourth draft. Introduces the forth set of design
changes Amendment of Transaction Attributes for
Volume Stock (5.1.4)

Informal review comments on version 0.2, from
Martin McConnell, Pete Jobson and Gareth Jenkins
have been incorporated in this version

Informal review comments on version 0.3 have been
incorporated in this version

The planned delivery structure of the HLD has been
changed so that the content of increment I is
enlarged as per Structure of Document (2.1)

Inclusion of design content to resolve a number of
gaps has been made, namely Application Message
Expiry (5.1.1.2), "Unnecessary Message" Removal
(5.1.1.3), Protection against Loss of Data (5.1.1.4),
Improving Data Server Performance (5.1.3.3.2)

Incorporation of a Changes Forecast which
specifically addresses possible changes to content in
previous versions of issued drafts

0.5

25/08/04

Informal review comments on version 0.4 have been
incorporated in this version

Addition of a changes forecast considering reformat
of document to eliminate excess content

Fifth draft. Introduces the final sets of design
changes contributing to increment I of the document:

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 2 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref:

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version:

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

¢ Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data
Model (5.1.5)

e Introduction of Trading Period Rollover
Script (5.1.6)

¢ Introduction of Volume Stock Balancing
Model (5.1.7)

e Introduction of Stock Balance Reports
(5.1.8)

e Introduction of Branch Trading Statement
(5.1.9)

0.6

14/10/04

Sixth Draft. Introduces the final sets of design
changes contributing to increment 2 of the document:

¢ Changes to Balancing impacted as a result
of changes to Declarations, Discrepancies
and Transaction Corrections (5.1.10)

¢ Changes to Report Reprints (5.1.11)
e Changes to Suspense Processing

Additionally this version of the document adopts the
design solution for implementation of the BTS, based
on reference data item derivations

This version of the document also incorporates some
minor changes following discussions.

0.7

09/12/04

Seventh Draft. Addresses all comments received in
document versions to date. Completes detail in all
areas of design.

23/12/04

First Baseline. Addresses all comments received
against document version 0.7 issued for formal
review. The following changes have been made:

¢ The format of start and end dates in the
reference data collection specified in section
12.1 now includes a time element. The same
changes has been reflected in RD/DES/056

¢ Correction of Mandatory Review
Authorities, CS Service Introduction
Manager being removed, as is already
correctly an optional reviewer

¢ Inclusion of design content for CP3842,
pertaining to removal of Training Mode,
allowing up to 99 Trading Periods and
aligning giro reports to week numbers

¢ Clarification of accounting sense on change
to cash in pouches now using pairing
product rather than reversing 5610 and
correct of processing so that cash in pouches

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

EA/HLD/005

Page: 3 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
* contra product identified by counter config
params
e Application of corrections resulting from
comments from Mik Peach and Lina Kiang
¢ Clarification of points relating to MiMan
changes concerning withdrawal of chosen
Accounting Period override, following
comments received from Neil Gormley
Ld 30/08/05 Addresses review comments received on version 1.0 I CP 3888. 4002;
. PEAK 117079,
from Gareth Jenkins. Incorporates changes for listed I 117170, 117784.
CPs and PEAKs. See section 0.5 for change details I 118648
2.0 12/09/05 Second Baseline

0.2 Review Details

Review Comments by :

Review Comments to :

Originator

Mandatory Review Authority

Name

ASS Designer

Gareth Jenkins

DU Development Manager

‘Andy Kennedy

CS System Support Centre Manager

Mik Peach

CS Network Service Manager

Peter Thompson

CS Data Centre & Operations Service Manager

Peter Thompson

CS Security Manager

Brian Pinder

Optional Review / Issued for Information

DU Development Team.

Rob Dinnadge

Mark Scardifield, Martin McConnell, Phil Orton, Jon Hulme,

DU Test Design

Peter Robinson

CS Infrastructure & Availability Manager

Carl Marx

CS Service Introduction Manager

Graham Welsh

CS Service Definition Manager

Jane Collins

CS Major Release Manager

Peter Goodwin

CS Release Manager

John Budworth

ASS Technical Designer

Gareth Jenkins

CS Business Services Manager

Peter Thompson

( * ) = Reviewers that returned comments

0.3 Associated Documents

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 4 of 135

Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Reference

Document

Version

Date

Title Source

[TEMP]

PA/TEM/001

Fujitsu Services PVCS
Document Template

[DCRHLD]

EA/HLD/006

Impact Release 3 — PVCS
Counter Design for
Declaration,
Correction and
Revaluation

[PROC]

DE/PRO/003

Post Office Account I PVCS
System Integration
Lifecycle Processes

[DP]

EA/DPR/004

IMPACT Release 3 PVCS
Design Proposal

[CDBT]

EA/CDE/002

Branch Trading POL/PO
Reporting, Avia
Management and PVCS
Control and
Transaction
Management
Conceptual Design

[RDMCHLD]

RD/DES/056

Reference Data End I PVCS
to End High Level
Design for S80
(Impact, Track &
Trace, +1 Sales)

[RPUI]

EA/IFS/011

IMPACT Release 3 - I PVCS
Report Production
User Interface

[DCRUT]

EA/IFS/012

IMPACT Release 3 - I PVCS
Declaration,
Correction and
Revaluation User
Interface

[BTSUI]

EA/IFS/013

IMPACT Release 3- I PVCS
Balancing and
Trading Statement
User Interface

[REPREC]

SD/DES/005

Horizon OPS Reports I PVCS
and Receipts - Post
Office Account
Horizon Office
Platform Service

[MENU]

SD/SPE/016

Horizon OPS Menu I PVCS
Hierarchy Release 2

[MENU2]

SD/SPE/022

Horizon OPS Menu I PVCS
Hierarchy: Changes

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 5 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Supplement

[STYLE] SD/STD/001 Horizon Office PVCS

Platform Service
Style Guide

[MIGHLD] EA/HLD/008 IMPACT Release 3 PVCS

Migration High Level
Design

[RIPCNT] TD/SPE/010 Riposte 6 Message PVCS

Server Configuration
for Counters

[SOFTLAUNCH] I NB/LLD/056 SofiLaunch Low PVCS
Level Design

[RDDOC2] RD/DOC/002 Reference Data PVCS
Collections

[RDREQ] RD/DES/059 $80 Impact - PVCS

Reference Data
Requirements to
support Functional
Changes and to
control Migration

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

Abbreviation Definition

AG Attribute Grammar

API Application Programming Interface.

BP Balance Period

BTS Branch Trading Statement

CAP Cash Account Period

DLL Dynamic Link Library. A unit of executable code

DP Design Proposal

EOD End Of Day

EPOSS Sub-system of Horizon desktop which is responsible for representing sales
of goods

HLD High-level design specification. See [PROC]

LLD Low-level design specification. See [PROC]

MiECCO Migration (ECCO). A tool developed to support the original migration to
Horizon from the prior ECCO system (at some branches). No longer used.

MiMAN Migration (Manual). A tool originally developed to support migration to

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 6 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Horizon from prior manual systems (at most branches), but also used to
introduce new or temporary branches.

NT Microsoft operating system

OBC Operational Business Change. A mechanism for POL to request day to day
changes to data within the Horizon system

POA Post Office Account

POL Post Office Ltd.

PPD Procedures and Processes Document. See [PROC]

PVCS Configuration Management tool used by Fujitsu Services (Post Office
Account)

RAD Rapid Application Development

RDMC Reference Data Management Centre

RDT Reference Data Team

RMS Riposte Message Store

SLA Service Level Agreement. An agreement, usually encapsulated in a
contract, specifying the ways in which the delivery of a service will be
measured and the level of such measures that must be achieved

SQL Structured Query Language. This term is normally used in reference to the
well-defined query languages used with relational databases. However, in
this document, it refers to the proprietary Riposte query language syntax by
which an application can specify which messages are to be retrieved from
the Riposte message store. (It is thus more like the WHERE clause of a
normal SQL SELECT).

TIS Technical Interface Specification. See [PROC]

TP Trading Period

TPS Transaction Processing System; application which collects transaction
information and passes it to various Post Office Ltd systems

UI User Interface. The screen

VB Visual Basic — development tool produced by Microsoft

VB6 VB version 6

VSS Visual Source Safe

0.5 Changes in this Version

Version Changes
0.1 None, this is the first version.
0.2 Comments incorporated as a result of Informal Review of first draft.

Further, minor refinements to document content as a result of document
reading

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 7 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Incorporation of design for Introduction of Aggregation Engine for Volume
Stock (5.1.3)

0.3

Incorporation of design for Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers
(5.1.2)

0.4

Comments incorporated from informal review of issues 0.2 and 0.3.

Changes specified to planned delivery content of the HLD making up
Increment I

Included content resolving gaps in design, namely:
¢ End of Day Protection of Data Loss

¢ Start of Day Data Protection Loss
¢ Data Server Performance Improvements

¢ Results of analysis of message expiry from Gareth Jenkins
and Jon Hulme

Incorporation of design for Amendment of Transaction Attributes for
Volume Stock (5.1.4)

0.5

This draft issue constitutes the planned content comprising increment I of
the document.

Comments have been incorporated from informal review of issue 0.4

Incorporation of design for Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data
Model (5.1.5), Introduction of Trading Period Rollover Script (5.1.6),
Introduction of Volume Stock Balancing Model (5.1.7), Introduction of
Stock Balance Reports (5.1.8) and Introduction of Branch Trading
Statement (5.1.9) have also been included.

0.6

This draft issue constitutes the planned content comprising increment 2 of
the document, but also includes the draft content of the planned increment 3

0.7

This draft issue constitutes the planned deliverable constituting the full
design for balancing, rollover and stock processing for formal review

1.0

First Baseline

Changes in response to review comments from Gareth Jenkins. Various
editorial and functional clarifications/corrections :

5.1.2 clarifies rollover from Virtual TPs into the next year, determination
of first TP, CAP/TP ambiguity, and simplifies the description of MiMAN

5.1.4 clarifies the timing of VolS and Tertiary Mapping changes.
5.1.3, 5.1.7 describe additional RCNTM/RCETM accumulators

5.1.8 clarifies Volume/Value stock reporting and use of RCNTM/RCETM
accumulators

5.1.9 clarifies the derivation of the various elements of the BTS report, and
delegates the actual layout definition to [BTSUI]

5.1.11 updated to remove Variance report (not in scope of this document)
and clarify availability of reprints for Stock Unit Balance reports for BP
rollovers

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 8 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.12 clarifies the changes to the Suspense report from Point 20 onward

5.1.14 clarifies the implementation of client week numbers in response to
CP3888.

9.1 contained obsolete material, and now delegates the sofilaunch migration
details to [IMIGHLD]

11.0 corrects some omissions in the design proposal cross reference matrix

2.0 Originator changed to Roger Donato (The original author - Phil
Hemingway, and the person who applied the last updates to the document
Martin Nixon, have both left the Horizon project)

No technical changes since version 1.1

0.6 Changes Expected

Changes

The adoption of an enhanced version of Data Server is proposed for the production of all balance
reports, providing a common solution to the requirement for processing stock by volume. However
concern remains that the additional workload particularly for the Office Snapshot report will result
in a notable degradation. A proposed architectural change has been put forward which promotes
the use of checkpoint data to limit the amount of raw transaction data that needs to be read to
produce any one balance report. At the very worst if there are performance issues with the office
snapshot the BESReports component will have to be amended to adopt the same policy as has been
introduced for DataServer Accumulators. It is therefore a subject of consideration to observe the
performance of Data Aggregation for Impact Release 3 as to whether these forecast changes are
implemented.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 9 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 INTRODUCTION...

2.0 SCOPE...
2.1 STRUCTURE OF DOCUMENT
3.0 DESIGN PRINCIPLES.

3.1 INCREMENTAL DESIGN.
3.2. JOINT WORKING...
3.3. DESIGN NEUTRALITY
3.4. DATA DRIVEN FUNCTIONALITY
3.5 REUSABILITY.
3.6 USER INTERFACE, SCREENS AND PRINTS.
3.7 REFERENCE DATA...
3.8 PERSISTENT OBJECTS

4.0 REQUIREMENTS...

5.0 SYSTEM COMPONENTS.

5.1. APPLICATION COMPONENTS..........-
SAM Extension of Transaction Retention.
5.1.2 Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers.
5.13 Introduction of Aggregation Engine for Volume Stoc
S14 Amendment of Transaction Attributes for Volume Stoc
SS Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data Model.
5.1.6 Introduction of Trading Period Rollover Script...
5.1.7 Introduction of Volume Stock Balancing Model.
518 Introduction of Stock Balance Reports...
SLO Introduction of Branch Trading Statement.
5.1.10 Adoption of Variance Handling from Discrepancies.
5.111 Introduction of Extended Reprints.
5.1.12 Changes to Suspense Account.
5.1.13 Adoption of Cut Off Reports for Trading Periods
5.1.14 Amendment/Removal of Generic Reports...
$.2 INTERFACE.
5.3 DISTRIBUTED APPLICATION SERVIC
5.4. INFORMATION MANAGEMENT.
5.5 NETWORKING SERVICES.
5.6 PLATFORMS...
5.6.1 Live Counters
5.6.2 Training Mode.
5.6.3 Training Counter:

6.0 SYSTEMS MANAGEME

6.1 REFERENCE DATA
6.2 RECEIPTS AND REPORTS....
6.3 SCREENS AND DIALOGUE FLO’

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 10 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

7.0 APPLICATION DEVELOPMENT.

8.0 SYSTEM QUALITIES.

8.1 AVAILABILITY
8.2 USABILIT
8.3. SUPPORTABILT
8.4 SECURITY
8.5 POTENTIAL FOR CHANG a
9.0 SOLUTION IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY........ccssssssssessesssssenessenseneensenenne 101

9.1 MIGRATION,
911 Extended Retention Periods
9.1.2 Introduction of Trading Period Rollover s...c.ccccciescsveevesveevesieeeseesessesees tease 101

10.0 COSTS, RISKS AND TIMESCALES.

10.1 TECHNICAL RISK:
10.2.» MANAGEMENT RISKS

11.0 APPENDIX A —- DESIGN PROPOSAL CROSS REFERENCE MATRIX........105

12.0 APPENDIX B —- AFFECTED REFERENCE DATA COLLECTIONG.........000 109

12.1 ACCOUNTINGPERIODS COLI
12.2 OUTLETDETAILS ve
12.3 COUNTERCONFIGPARAMS COLLECTION
12.4 EPOSSNODES COLLECTION...
12.5 EPOSSDNODES COLLECTION
12.6 MESSAGEDEFS COLLECTION......

ION.

113

12.7 MODEPARAMETERS COLLECTIO! 118
12.8 I BTSSOURCEDATA COLLECTION. 119
12.9 SUSPENSESECTIONS COLLECTION.. 126
13.0 APPENDIX C - AFFECTED PERSISTENT OBJECT COLLECTIONS. 128

13.1 EPOSSCAP COLLECTION. .......c.ccccccccesesseseseseseseeeseseeeeseseeesteseensnseenseeeeesesneneees 128
13.2. STOCKUNITS COLLECTION.

14.0 APPENDIX D- OVERVIEW OF RIPOSTE MESSAGE EXPIR

130

15.0 APPENDIX E —- EPOSS ACCOUNTING NODE STRUCTURE.,.......ccsseseeseesee 131

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 11 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

1.0 Introduction

This document forms part of the overall Counter High Level Design for the implementation of
Impact Release 3. The high level designs provide the counter design definition in response to
the IMPACT Release 3 Design Proposal provided in [DP], which provides the solution
proposal for the implementation of requirements stated in the Branch Trading Reporting,
Management and Control and Transaction Management Conceptual Design, [CDBT]

This document is one of three design documents providing the counter design solution. It is
complemented by the HLD for the Counter Declaration, Correction and Revaluation
Functions of Impact Release 3, [DCRHLD]and the Migration High Level Design for Impact
Release 3, [MIGHLD]with which this document should be read.

The document should also be read in association with Counter User Interface Definitions
provided in the Impact Release 3 User Interfaces for Balancing and Trading Statements
({BTSUI]), Declaration, Correction and Revaluation ([DCRUI]) and Report Production
({RPUI]).

This document specifically provides a statement of the Counter Balancing, Rollover and Stock
functions to be implemented as part of Impact Release 3. In this respect the document defines
the overall balancing process initiated to carry forward figures to the next accounting period at
stock and office levels, in response to transactions having been posted. The document
therefore provides a model of the process involved and the implementation of that process

The design is less concerned with the actual dialogues the user undertakes to carry out the
processes involved, which are little changed, and are specified in the above User Interface
Specifications. In this respect the design reflects ‘under the bonnet’ aspects of the process.
Any additional dialogues or changes to existing dialogues, which assist in an understanding of
the entire process under change, or require specification, are included in this document.

The primary functional changes to the balancing process can be summarised as follows:

e The introduction of a 4 or 5 week Trading Period to replace the current one week
Cash Account Period, as the mandatory balancing Accounting Period. Balance Periods
are however retained.

e The elimination of the majority of stock handling by Value, to be replaced by the
handling of stock by Volume. Methods of Payment and some specific existing Value
Stock Items continue to follow the current processes.

e The removal of the Cash Account Report (in line with elimination of CAPs) and its
replacement by a Branch Trading Statement.

e A revised Balancing Model where Receipts equals Payments (inline with the handling
of Stock by Volume) in order that the branch can continues to reconcile its figures
from one Accounting Period to the next.

e The removal of the distinction between Non-Value Stock and Value Stock,
consequential to the management of stock by volume

e The transfer of discrepancies to a local office suspense discrepancy.

All Changes to the balancing process can be attributed to the above primary process changes
and it is possible to designate any change to the existing Counter Service as being attributable

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 12 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

to a change driven by the introduction of Monthly Trading Periods and/or the introduction of

Stock Handling by Volume.

The design activity for the introduction of Impact Release 3 changes to the Counter is

summarised in the following diagram.

Branch Trading
Reporting, Management
and Control and
Transaction
Management
Conceptual Design

EA/CDE/002

IMPACT Release 3
Design Proposal
ESA/DPR/004

Reports and
Receipts
SD/DES/005

Counter Dialogues
for Impact Release 3
EAVIFS/011,012,013

Counter
Declarations,
Corrections &

Revaluations HLD

EA/HLD/006

Reference Data
HLD
RD/DES/056

Impact Release 3
$80 Migration
HLD
EA/HLD/008,

Figure 1 - S80 IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design Activities

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 13 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

2.0 Scope

This document forms part of the high level design for the IMPACT Release 3 Branch Trading
project. The overall Post Office requirements for this project are stated in the ‘Branch Trading
Reporting, Management and Control and Transaction Management Conceptual Design’
[CDBT], and the Design Proposal produced in response to these is the ‘IMPACT Release 3
Design Proposal’ [DP].

The document is only concerned with the design changes required to implement Impact
Release 3 at the Counter, other changes being introduced to the data centre, and to the
counter at S80 which are outside the scope of Impact, being also outside the scope of this
document.

The proposal is supported by a set of High Level Design documents describing changes
required at the data centre and branches. This particular document describes the changes
required to the branch counters to handle ‘Balancing, Rollover and Stock Processing’, and is
complemented by the high level design for ‘Counter Declaration, Correction and Revaluation’
[DCRHLD].

The scope of the changes required for Impact Release 3 have been analysed and it has been
found that a natural split can be achieved in the changes required. This split reflects the nature
of business processes involved in the operational day and at the end of the accounting period
At the start of day cash declarations may be undertaken. The following inday transactions are
posted and taken at the end of the accounting period, for balancing, preceded by the
declaration processing. This HLD is restricted to the changes to the counter to post inday
transactions and undertake balancing.

There is some overlap with the high level design for the Counter Declaration, Correction and
Revaluation Functions of Impact Release 3. This overlap will be stated where necessary but
for the most part is limited to the accepting of discrepancies from declarations, which adjust
the cash and stock value figures, which are then used in the balancing process.

Appendix A — Design Proposal Cross Reference Matrix defines the specific responsibilities for
satisfying the counter aspects of [DP] between the two counter HLDs.

Part of that coordination is the entire subject of migration. The two HLDs both include
elements of the Migration process to introduce Impact Release 3 adding further detail to
subjects covered in the Migration HLD [MIGHLD].

Impact Release 3 Design Proposal identified a number of areas of change required to achieve
the business proposition identified in the Conceptual Design. Not all changes defined impact
the counter however numerous changes are interdependent with changes in other element of
the system. For example Counter changes cannot be exercised without the requisite reference
data being sent to the counter.

This design only defines the implementation of changes to the counter for S80. Those changes
must be coordinated with other system changes.

The Counter balancing functions are implemented by the EPOSS Counter Application. The
changes defined by the design principally require changes to EPOSS, but are not solely
restricted to changes to EPOSS.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 14 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

One anomaly in the inclusion of design changes as part of this document is the handling of
stock by volume, which itself affects the process to remit and transfer stock. In this context
the document includes transaction processing.

A second anomaly in the design is that stock by volume affects declarations. In this context
there will be some overlap between the two HLDs.

The design focuses on the underlying processing of balancing, rollover and stock handling. It
is not a focus of the document to specify the dialogues of balancing. However there must be
an interaction between the dialogues document and the HLD. As an example the dialogues
document will specify the dialogues and hence any messages involved. However the HLD will
only describe the dialogues and will only relay that there are certain messages not what they
are.

The objectives of this document are:

e To define a formal high level design in accordance with the Post Office Account
Engineering process, that provides the design of Counter Balancing, Rollover and
Stock Handling for Impact Release 3 at S80.

e To approach the design in such a way as to minimise risks and to acknowledge the
timescale for the delivery of S80 in such a way that allows development to commence
work on units of the design, before the complete design is finally approved. It is the
intention that such a development will therefore employ a RAD approach.

e To provide a design that in being a delta to the existing Counter Service, describes the
system as it currently exists so that the consequences of the changes can be fully
appreciated, and to enable the strategic re-architecting programme within Post Office
Account to make use of the functional elements of balancing within the Counter.

2.1 Structure of Document

Consideration to the design has addressed these objectives from the outset of document
production and a structure for the document conceived to ensure all objectives are supported.

The changes to the counter for Balancing, Rollover and Stock Handling are defined in terms
of the two principle business process changes, namely Use of Branch Trading Periods, and
Stock Handling by Volume.

The project is not progressed according to the normal POA development methodology as
described in [PROC] — i.e. via production and review of the conceptual design (requirement
statement), design proposal (specification), high level design and low level design documents
before proceeding to implementation and validation. Whilst the conceptual design and design
proposal have been produced, the process of HLD, LLD and development will be undertaken
though joint working and RAD.

However, the disparate nature of the anticipated changes to existing design and
implementation, together with the required tight development schedule, mean that for this
particular design a more aggressive approach is required :-

The first difference is that instead of concluding formalities for the entire high level design
phase before low level design can begin, the high level design is to be broken down into
independent design changes (as far as is practical), so that low level design can proceed on
particular changes without waiting for other independent changes to be completed.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 15 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

There is nothing new in this — it is quite normal for a Design Proposal to be addressed by a set
of independent High Level Designs, and for each of these to be progressed in parallel. The
change here is that this particular High Level Design document is itself to be regarded as
covering a set of independent functional units, such that particular units can be progressed to
Low Level Design and implementation before other units are necessarily firmed up.

The second difference occurs because the functional units require (indeed must require
because of timescales) discrete changes to existing low level design and implementation. The
best way to minimize the elapsed time expended on these changes is to take advantage of their
small size and to iterate them by focussed technical workshops involving people familiar with
the existing high and low level designs. This RAD approach effectively allows the low level
design changes to proceed in parallel with the high level design. (Indeed, it may be equally
practical for some of the low level design issues to be explored by proceeding with
implementation in parallel — at least in prototype. Further consideration of that option is
outside the scope of this document).

The high level design covered by this document is therefore broken down into a number of
relatively independent functional units. An agreed design production plan has been considered
and compiled which structures the design of the functional units into a number of cohesive
sets, each set forming a document increment.

The design of each functional unit will be issued as a draft version of the document, for
informal review. Successive draft revisions of the document will add details for each of the
units, whilst also reworking informal review comments to previous draft versions.

Following the agreed structure draft versions of the document will be issued for functional
units until all units forming the group assigned to an increment have been addressed, when the
document in that form will be issued for formal review.

Thus increment I, for example, will describe functional units A, B and C say to a level suitable
for formal review and acceptance. Increment 2 will then include functional units D and E to
reviewable status, and Increment 3 will finally describe F. Review of increments 1 and 2
should clearly be focussed on units A, B, C and D, E respectively. Any feedback on other units
is of course welcome, but may not be incorporated until the increment in which they are due
for review.

In an ideal world, review of new material for (say) unit D would not impact the design for
units A, B, C. but it is possible that there will be limited rework required. Because of this,
review of the final increment must cover all the units.

The following functional units and document increments have been identified.

Increment I Primary Business Process Function Change

1 Introduction of Trading Periods Extension of Transaction Retention (5.1.1)

Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers (5.1.2)

Handle Stock by Volume Introduction of Aggregation Engine for Volume Stock
(5.1.3)

Amendment of Transaction Attributes for Volume Stock
(5.1.4)

Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data Model (5.1.5)

Introduction of Trading Period Rollover Script (5.1.6)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 16 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Introduction of Volume Stock Balancing Model (5.1.7)

Introduction of Stock Balance Reports (5.1.8)

Introduction of Branch Trading Statement (5.1.9)

2 Handle Stock by Volume Adoption of Variance Handling from Discrepancies
(5.1.10)

Introduction of Extended Reprints (5.1.11)

Changes to Suspense Account (5.1.12)

3 Introduction of Trading Periods Adoption of Cut Off Reports for Trading Periods (5.1.13)

‘Amendment/Removal of Generic Reports (5.1.14)

Table 1 - Functional Units and Document Increments

The substance of this document comprises a number of delta changes. These define the design
of individual functional changes. Each functional change provides a design definition to
achieve a specific business change, contributing to the whole. Their purpose is primarily to
inform the low-level design and development process, a primary purpose of this document.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 17 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

3.0 Design Principles

3.1 Incremental Design

The design of the changes for Impact Release 3 is adopting an incremental approach. That is
that the overall solution will be built by a set of interdependent changes each achieving a
functional enhancement. Such an approach is considered as one of the ways to ensure the risks
identified in Section 10 are mitigated.

3.2 Joint Working

The incremental design will be constructed using a Joint Working activity with Development
The joint working activity will use the opportunity to propose, agree and prototype design
changes earlier than otherwise would be the case, providing assurance that the complete
solution can be achieved within the timescales and also minimising the risks identified in
Section 10.

The joint working activity is performed in a controlled fashion.

3.3 Design Neutrality

The design of this system should wherever possible, adopt a neutral approach. That is where
the behaviour of the system can be related to some other aspect, it should derive its behaviour
by reference, and not be hard-coded.

3.4 Data Driven functionality

The system is designed to be data driven. A clear demarcation between logic and data needs to
be maintained. Logic is encapsulated in the code, data in the reference data. However, it is
never that simple. Some paths through the logic depend on the data; this is unavoidable. What
is undesirable is for this to go to the level where the logic becomes convoluted.

3.5 Reusability

This is closely related to Data Driven functionality. Where two components are sufficiently
similar, the same should be used in both cases.

3.6 User Interface, Screens and Prints

All user interactions will conform to [STYLE] wherever possible, to provide the clerk with an
image consistent with the rest of the system. Appropriate prompts will be provided to guide
the clerk through the transactions.

In all dialogues with the user, any visual component must have an equivalent keystroke. Any
keystroke that has an effect on the system will have a visual component that will have like
effect.

References [RPUI], [DCRUI], and [BTSUI] describe the screen flows and [REPREC] the
print layouts for receipts and reports.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 18 of 135
FU.

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

FUJ00085124
}J00085124

3.7 Reference Data

All application reference data used by the system to provide 'parameter' data will be temporal
and must therefore be accessed through appropriate interfaces that provide support for this.

The order of attributes will not be relied on in accessing reference data, unless there is
specifically an ordering declared. Any attribute that is not mandatory may be omitted, so
empty and missing attributes must be treated identically. The presence of other attributes must
not cause failure. Any validation of attributes on reference data must be limited to checking
the presence of mandatory attributes, and the values of those parameters present.

[RDMCHLD] provides the specification of Post Office Reference Data changes to support
Impact Release 3 at the Counter. Appendix B — Affected Reference Data Collections within
this document also specifies the Type C Reference Data providing Configuration Data to the
Application changes.

[RDREQ] provides a specification of the Reference Data Requirements to support the
functional changes and migration.

3.8 Persistent Objects

The application makes extensive use of persistent objects. Persistent Objects are internal
message store objects generated and maintained by the counter applications. Their format in
the message store is similar in nature to reference data however they can and are updated by
the application, unlike reference data which is read only.

Persistent Objects form an important part of the application providing formal temporary
storage of variables or attributes as an interface between different parts of the application. The
design and introduction of Impact Release 3 will utilise and build on existing persistent object
structures to achieve an efficient solution and promote concepts already in use.

The introduction of any new additional persistent objects will be considered carefully as part
of design so as not to unduly impact counter operation, as their implementation carries a
performance overhead in their indexes being maintained.

Similarly any persistent objects removed from use will not actually be deleted, as differences in
the archiving and index timing between the counters and correspondence servers can lead to
problems if the same objects are recreated at a later time, and particularly if within a year of
their previous deletion.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 19 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

4.0 Requirements

Requirements for Impact Release 3 are documented in [CDBT] and are cross-referenced in
[DP].

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 20 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.0 System Components

The changes required to the Counter in response to the requirements for Impact Release 3 for
Balancing, Rollover and Stock Handling are mainly, but not entirely, attributable to EPOSS.
Each change to the system is defined in terms of a Functional change to EPOSS. Changes to
other components where required are identified specifically.

5.1 Application Components

5.1.1 Extension of Transaction Retention

The lifespan of a message written to the riposte message store by counter applications is
governed by the coordinated management of counter applications and Riposte. An overview is
provided in Appendix D — Overview of Riposte Message Expiry.

Currently branch balancing is required each week, with occasional allowable extensions
through the Extended CAP functionality. The move to a monthly trading period is in conflict
with the current expiry periods assigned to transactions and other messages within the branch
counter Riposte Message Store.

The impact is made worse by there being a minimal coordinated approach to the assignment of
actual expiry periods to messages within counter applications.

Changes are required in a number of areas to extend transaction and message retention in
order that messages are not deleted before their use in the balancing process has been satisfied.

© Changes to Default Riposte Counter Configuration Parameters.

© Changes to the Counter Applications to use new assigned expiry period mechanism.
e¢ Removal of unnecessary message expiries.

e Protection against loss of data.

The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.1.1.

5.1.1.1 Riposte Configuration Parameters

Riposte Configuration Parameters at the counter control the assignment of message expiry
values to written messages in the counter message store, when no expiry value is provided by
the application writing the message or when the expiry provided is inconsistent with a set of
predefined configuration limits

The Riposte Configuration Parameters applicable to the Counter will change as follows:

Configuration Parameter I Old Value New Value
MaxMessageExpiry 37 50
DefaultMessageExpiry 36 43
MaxReanimation 36 49

Table 2 - Riposte Configuration Parameter Settings

The Counter MinMessageExpiry value remains unchanged at 34.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 21 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Changes to Riposte Configuration Parameters on the Correspondence Server are outside the
scope of this document.

Changes to the Riposte Configuration Parameters specified above will also be separately
documented in [RIPCNT], the definitive documentation of the Riposte Configuration
Parameters.

The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.1.1.1.

5.1.1.2 Application Message Expiry

Individual counter applications are responsible for their own message expiry values, and within
applications distinct functions are responsible for assigning the appropriate value to that
function. In most cases expiry values are hard coded.

Analysis of the primary messages written in everyday use of the counter, by applications
hosted on the counter reveals a number of different values to be used. As an example the
specific value of 35 days is used, for the assignment of Message Expiry for EPOSS
Transactions. It is clear that such an assignment is insufficient for balancing on a monthly
basis, given that the actual balancing process may not be undertaken for a number of days after
the monthly period has expired.

A change is required to adopt the assignment of the expiry period for EPOSS messages from
Reference Data, hence allowing the value to be adjusted without impacting counter
applications. This will affect any counter application writing transactions contributing to the
Branch balancing process.

The following scheme shall be employed:

Reference Data

Collection: CounterConfigParams
Object:Counter

Counter
Start-Up

Extract Attribute <TxnExpiry> Value

Expose_TxnExpii global Variable

Use Expiry Variable

Counter
Applications

Assign Attribute <Expiry:> Value

App ication Messages

Figure 2 — Setting Message Expiry Periods from Reference Data

Counter Application Transaction Expiry Period Assignment will be based upon a value held in
the new Type C Reference Data Collection <CounterConfigParams:>. An object may exist for

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 22 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

each Counter Application managing its own Message Expiry Periods. However a Counter
Application default object will also exist. The collection is defined in 12.0.

Counter Applications defining their own Start-Up processing will read the appropriate
collection and extract the <TxnExpiry:> attribute and expose the value to the application for
the duration of the service life.

Counter Applications recording messages to the message store will assign the <Expiry:>
attribute from the exposed variable.

The scheme affects Messages currently written with a hard coded expiry of 35 days and ideally
should be applied to all messages which support Balancing. A reference data value of 42 days
is initially proposed. The following table defines those message types which are needed for
reporting throughout the longer duration of trading periods and so should have their expiry
periods changed to use the scheme described.

Classification Comment :

Cash Account Impacted but will be removed as part of other changes for Impact R3
Cut OFF

Declaration

Event

OpeningFigures

Rollover

Tn Include APS Txns

Migration Impacted but requires further consideration as to strategic Solution
Counter EOD Used by Counter EOD on the Slave

EOD EOD on the Gateway

EOD HT EOD on the Gateway

The following components are impacted by the change:

EPOSSCore
EPOSSDeclare
EPOSSMessage
EPOSSStockUnit
ReportProcessor
LFSConfirm
OBCS
End of Day
The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.1.1.2.

5.1.1.3 "Unnecessary Message" Removal

Analysis of message expiry assignment has revealed a less than coordinated approach to
message expiry assignment. There are two risks opened up as a result:

e In adopting an approach that provides for the assignment of message expiry from
reference data it is possible that a message currently assigned a constant expiry may be
missed and a resultant message loss occurs.

e In lengthening the balancing period to a month it is possible that some messages will

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 23 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

now remain in the message store unnecessarily.

As a result a second attribute is defined in the Type C Reference Data Collection
<CounterConfigParams:>, <MinAppExpiry:>. Use of the this attribute should be adopted in
writing any message currently written with a hard coded value of 35 days, for those message
types which are not required to support retention through the longer trading periods. As a
result the actual expiry value in the Riposte message will be replaced by the Riposte
Configuration Parameter MinMessageExpiry, overriding that assigned from MinAppExpiry. A
reference data value of 20 days is initially proposed for MinAppExpiry.

Counter Applications recording messages to the message store will assign the <Expiry:>
attribute from the attribute <MinAppExpiry:>.

An analysis of messages which should have their message expiry reduced or removed is as
follows, along with the modules/DLLs affected.

Classification ‘Comment z

NetworkQOS Network Stats, but not written by Counter Applications and therefore no change
required within the Counter Code

TPO Used by APS

The following components are impacted by the change:
APS

There also exists a category of message, normally of low volume, for which the Expiry Period
can be specifically assigned on a case by case basis, normally a very low value. In such cases
cither case specific reference data items can be defined or the message expiry can be hard
coded. An analysis of the message types which should have their message Expiry specifically
assigned is as follows, along with the modules/DLLs affected.

Classification ‘Comment

CtrListen Msgs form a cross-counter locking mechanism
InterfaceLock Ul button locking mechanism

Printinfo

OBCS Admin

The following components are impacted by this change:

BESReports
EPSOSCommon
EPOSSReportProcessor
EPOSSStockUnit
EPOSSWatchDog
MiMan

NBFinalise
NBRequestReply
OBCS

TestPeripherals

Currently the components impacted by this category of message will be left unchanged, the
hard coded value being retained.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 24 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

There remains a set of messages which are written which adopt the default expiry values
specified in the Riposte Configuration parameters, and for which the application controlled
expiry is either not specified or is of an arbitrary value (below the Riposte default). The
following analysis shows the message types and what is the recommended value for the Expiry
in these cases. However they will only be changed if the code is being changed in the area of
Impact Release 3.

Classification New Comment
Expiry

‘APS Recon 20

DailyCACT 20

DailyTxnCT 20 Will be removed

Elapsed 20 Generated by XSLT processing?

Escher Default I We can't change Escher's code so these will stay as they are

Event a Event Ids 47 & 48. Should be explicitly set ike other Events

KeyNisg 7 Leave since no changes needed to KMA

IFS ra Need further analysis. Suggest they stay as Default

LFS Remout ev)

Mails Print 20

Mails Txn a Some are EPOSSTransactions

Origin 20 Generated by Mails?

PAF 20

Ping 1

RIAD Txn cy

SCCache 5

SessionTransfer 5

Test Default I Will not occur on real counters

WeeklyEPOSS 20 Will be removed as part of Impact Release 3 anyway

The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.1.1.3.

5.1.1.4 Protection against Loss of Data

Whilst the changes to message retention assignment described above are sufficient for
branches operating in steady state there is still a risk to data loss and real examples where such
loss can indeed occur. [DP] describes such examples.

The inclusion of processing to protect the system from loss of data is the responsibility of
System Start Up and End Of Day.

5.1.1.4.1 System Start Up

The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.1.1.4

The starting of the Riposte Service after a reboot is instigated from a batch file (services.bat)
run under the control of PostPolo.exe launched by Polo. This batch file is one of a number in
the c:\admincfg\PostPolo directory which are run in sequence by PostPolo.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 25 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Changes are required to insert additional batch files to run before services.bat which change
the Riposte Configuration required if necessary so prohibiting Riposte from archiving old
messages.

The changes required are different depending whether the reboot is a live counter rebooting
after a closure or the implementation of a spare replacement.

Live Counter Reboot
A new batch file will be introduced in c:\admincfg\EachTime.

The batch file will instigate actions to examine the AdminRebootDetect service and determine
how long the counter has been down. The AdminRebootDetect service records the times and
types of system down events which can be used to establish whether Riposte Archiving needs
to be switched off. If the counter has been switched off or down for more than 24 hours then
the Riposte Configuration Registry settings, DisableArchiving, must be set to 1. Where the
condition 'no data available’ is met, for example as obtained by AdminRebootDetect from its
analysis of evidence from the event log, the default action will be to disable archiving.

End of Day checks will be responsible for resetting the registry settings back to 0.

Box-swap Counter Reboot

The implementation of a spare will implement a slightly different approach.

The Cold Build will unconditionally switch off Riposte Archiving, setting the Riposte
Configuration Registry setting, DisableArchiving, to 1. See [RIPCNT].

5.1.1.4.2. End of Day

The changes required to End of Day Processes are now described in [DCRHLD].

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 26 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.2 Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers

Impact Release 3 sees the replacement of the one week Cash Account Period by a four or five
week Trading Period as the mandatory period against which branches are required to balance
their accounts.

The introduction of trading periods carries a number of specific business changes, such as the
introduction of the Branch Trading Statement to replace the Cash Account. However the
introduction of Trading Periods can also be seen as a generic and largely mechanical change,
to change the accounting schedule and merely replace the CAP by TP.

Note that unlike the existing Cash Account, the Branch Trading Statement will not be used by
POL for accounting purposes. It is purely a Management Tool to help the Postmaster manage
his / her branch and to prove to an auditor that they are in control. POL will now be doing all
its accounting based on the transactions fed through each day to POL FS.

5.1.2.1 Scope

This change restricts its scope to the physical generic change of period from weekly CAP
rollover to monthly TP rollover, and the impact of that change on legends in the user interface
and printed reports.

Business functionality is being introduced that is associated with a TP rollover which is itself
different to CAP rollover, but those changes are covered in separate sections. See
Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data Model (5.1.5), Introduction of Trading Period
Rollover Script (5.1.6), Introduction of Stock Balance Reports (5.1.8), Introduction of Branch
Trading Statement (5.1.9), and Introduction of Extended Reprints (5.1.11).

5.1.2.2. Introduction to Accounting Periods

Accounting within Post Office branches is based around the concept of Periods. All
Transaction Postings made are assigned to a given period. Reports produced are then
populated from transactions for that period, transaction totals are summarised at the end of the
period, and totals are carried forward as initial figures for the start of the next period. The
following terms of period are relevant.

Accounting Year

This is the financial reporting year for Post Office Ltd. The mapping between accounting year
and physical dates is defined by Reference Data.

It has no direct impact on accounting within the branches, except that accounting periods are
contained within particular accounting years. There are no specific accounting year end
processes within the branch.

Accounting Period

An accounting year is divided into a number of Accounting Periods, and the mapping between
accounting periods and physical dates for a particular accounting year is defined by Reference
Data. Hitherto it has had no direct impact on accounting within the branches, but with the
introduction of Impact Release 3, it will form the basis for defining Trading Periods (see
below).

An accounting period is typically a month long, but during the transition from Cash Account
Periods to Trading Periods, the initial Accounting Periods (and hence Trading Periods) may be

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 27 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

reduced to as little as a week in order to complete pilot transitions in the shortest practical
time.

Cash Account Period (CAP)

Hitherto, the Cash Account Period has underpinned accounting control within each branch. At
the end of each CAP, production of a formal Cash Account report has been a prerequisite for
allowing the branch to ‘rollover’ into the next CAP. The mapping between CAPs and physical
dates for a particular accounting year is defined by Reference Data, and CAPs are contained
within particular Accounting Periods.

A CAP is typically a week long — starting on Thursday and ending on Wednesday, but
individual branches have the flexibility to ‘extend’ the CAP by up to 2 weeks to allow for staff
absence when the Cash Account report is normally due. In addition to that, there is no
absolute requirement to ‘rollover’ the CAP on Wednesday each week. Horizon issues
warnings if the CAP is rolled early or late, but does not prevent it.

(Strictly speaking, it warns you at login if the date is earlier/later than the CAP for the Stock
Unit. It also warns you at rollover if the date is earlier than the CAP end date. It does not
warn you if the rollover is late (presumably on the grounds you’ve already been warned once
at logon!)

Trading Period (TP)

With the introduction of Impact Release 3, branches no longer need to produce a weekly
formal Cash Account report, because transaction analysis is reported centrally via POLFS ona
daily basis. Because of that, the need for rollover between Cash Accounting Periods is
removed, and branches instead produce a Branch Trading Statement at the end of each so-
called Trading Period.

A Trading Period is based on an Accounting Period, with the start and end dates offset by an
amount to smooth the central workload. The offset is defined by branch-specific reference
data. Note that because of the branch-specific offset, CAPs are not bound by particular TPs.
In other words, you can’t deduce that CAP N will roll into TP M just because N is bounded by
a particular Accounting Period.

The existing branch flexibility in being able to ‘extend’ a CAP by up to 2 weeks is not carried
forward to TP (because allowing 2-3 months of unaccounted transactions is deemed
unacceptable). Nevertheless, Horizon will not enforce strict TP rollover on a particular date. If
branch staff choose to roll the TP early or late, Horizon will issue warnings (as now), but will
not prevent it.

In addition, because of the risk of data loss arising from message expiry, a warning will be
issued at logon if the Stock Unit has not been rolled over within the configured RollExpiry
period (see Extension of Transaction Retention 5.1.1). Note that this condition can occur even
when the current TP is appropriate for the current date, because the Stock Unit might have
rolled into the TP early, and have old messages as a result.

Balancing Period (BP)

Within a branch, individual Stock Units (the mechanisms for asset control and cash balancing)
can subdivide a CAP into a number of Balancing Periods in order to manage cash and assets
more closely. This is useful in high throughput branches, and for shared Stock Units where a

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 28 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

number of staff share responsibility for the assets. Balancing Periods have no fixed start and
end dates, but they are bounded by a particular CAP.

The use of balance Periods is carried forward as a feature, for use with TPs also.
Stock Unit and Office Rollovers

When a particular Stock Unit declares and commits its assets by producing a Balance report, it
can ‘rollover’ to start a new period. This can either be the next BP within the current CAP/TP,
or it can roll into a new CAP/TP. Once all Stock Units have rolled into the new CAP/TP, the
Office can itself be rolled forward and appropriate Cash Account or Branch Trading Statement
report produced.

During the time that a Stock Unit is ‘ahead’ of the Office, it can continue with normal business
and can checkpoint its asset declarations by rolling into new BPs as desired. However, Stock
Units can only be one CAP/TP ahead — in other words they cannot roll forward into the next
CAP/TP until the Office has entered the current one.

Note that the identity of the new CAP/TP is not simply ‘old+1’. Because of the ability to
‘extend’ the CAP by up to 2 weeks, Stock Units can roll from (say) CAP N to CAP N+3. In
addition, at the end of the Accounting Year, the last CAP may be CAP 52 or CAP 53, and is
followed by CAP 1 for the next year.

Determination of the next CAP takes no account of the current physical date — it is always by
lookup from Reference Data, and is based on the current CAP.

For example, if branch staff ignored Horizon warnings and omitted to rollover a CAP until 6
weeks late, then on finally doing so, they would enter the next CAP (which itself would be
now 5 weeks late for rollover) rather than the one appropriate to the current date. Having
done so, they would have to repeat the rollover process until reports had been produced for
each CAP. This is in order to provide all information necessary for POL to have complete
figures for each CAP for each branch.

Avoidance of such a situation is maintained through managerial oversight from POL of its
branch network activity.

The same will apply for TP rollovers, except that TPs cannot be ‘extended’.

5.1.2.3. Approach Taken to Transition

The transition from CAP-based to TP-based accounting is required to be on a branch-by-
branch and StockUnit-by-StockUnit basis. This means that at particular times during the
transition of the estate and of individual branches the software and reference data must
support concurrent use of both TP-based and CAP-based accounting, to allow for Stock Units
that have or have not yet rolled forward from a CAP into a TP.

In order to minimize the risk associated with a large scale pervasive change, use of the term
CAP will be retained throughout the code, existing reference data and persistent objects - the
semantics will simply be changed to mean Trading Period rather than Cash Account Period.

At a chosen CAP for each branch (the so-called ‘Final CAP’), transition will commence with
the first Stock Unit rollover from that CAP into an associated first TP. The other Stock Units
within branch subsequently roll into the TP, followed finally by rolling the Office. Thereafter
the Stock Unit and Office are supported purely by TP-based accounting.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 29 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

For ease of piloting, different CAPs are identified for different branches across the estate, and
transition occurs over a period of time until all are complete.

For a given branch, once the transition has occurred, all occurrences of the term CAP in the
User Interface or printed reports must be replaced by the term TP or Trading Period as
appropriate. However, during the transitional period that a particular Stock Unit is operating
in TP mode, but others are still operating in CAP mode, there is a need to be able to display
either CAP or TP legends according to the Stock Unit to which the current user is attached.

5.1.2.4 I Management of Steady-State CAP Rollover

The following describes the way in which Stock Units and Offices currently roll forward from
one CAP into the next.

The existing EPOSS implementation uses two persistent object collections in Riposte message
store to represent the branch and its Stock Units respectively. These describe the CAP and BP
in which they are operating.

The ‘EPOSSCAP’ collection (see 13.1) contains an object ‘Office’ that describes (among
other things), the CAP in which the Office (branch) is operating, the CAP from which it last
rolled, and the CAP into which it will next roll.

The ‘StockUnits’ collection (see 13.2) contains an object (with name <stock unit id>) for each
Stock Unit in the Office Each such object describes (among other things) the CAP and BP in
which the Stock Unit is operating, and the CAP into which it will next roll.

Note that the ‘current’ and ‘next’ CAP values for a Stock Unit do not necessarily match those
of the Office because a particular Stock Unit will be ahead of the Office once it has rolled over
to the next CAP.

The new ‘next CAP’ following Stock Unit or Office rollover is determined from on the Post
Office accounting calendar, represented by the ‘CAWecek’ temporal Reference Data collection
in Riposte message store, as described in [RDREQ]. Each member of the collection represents
one CAP in one particular accounting year, and the object name is of the form <year><cap>.
(See Figure 3)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 30 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

‘Stocktnits Collection

<Stock Unit>

BP cap Next
N: CAP
<Nel> EPOSSCAP Collection

Office

Yeu I Previous I CAP Next
avy CAP x caP
awl Nel

Persistent Objects

Reference Data ‘CAWeek Collection

CAWeek<YYYY><N-1

CAWeek-VYYY><N>

CAWeek<YYYY><N+L
CAWeek<YYYY=1><I>

Figure 3 - CAPs and the CAWeek Accounting Calendar

When a Stock Unit rolls over from one BP to the next, the BP value is simply incremented by
one. When it rolls over from one CAP to the next, the BP value is reset to 1, the current CAP
value becomes the next, and a new ‘next CAP’ value is determined (see below).

Once all the Stock Units have rolled over to the next CAP, the Office itself can be rolled. As
for the Stock Units, the previous CAP value for the Office becomes the current, the current
CAP value becomes the next, and a new ‘next CAP’ value is determined (see below).

The algorithm to determine a new ‘next CAP’ value is that the existing ‘next CAP’ value is
incremented by one, and that CAP is looked up in the Accounting Calendar for the year
associated with the existing ‘next CAP’. If the new CAP exists, then that is the value chosen.
However, at year end that CAP may not be present (i.e. when incrementing CAP from 52 to
53 or perhaps from 53 to 54). In that case, the year is incremented by one, and CAP I is
looked up in the calendar for the new year.

Rollover and selection of the next CAP is not affected by the actual physical date on which the
action is undertaken. Nevertheless, as separate business rules, Horizon does warn about
attempting early rollover, or logging in when the current CAP for the attached Stock Unit
should already have been rolled. Both of these checks are based on start and end date
properties for the CAP — obtained from the CAWeek accounting calendar ‘CAWkSD’ and
“CAWKED?’ attributes.

Hitherto, CAP Extension has been handled by adjusting the ‘next CAP’ value for the Office
and all the Stock Units, and is not permitted if any of the Stock Units have already rolled into
the original ‘next CAP’, or if the requested week would be in a different accounting year.
However, this functionality will be removed from S80 (see [MIGHLD] and section 9.1).

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 31 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.2.5 I Management of Steady-State TP Rollover
With the advent of TP rollover instead of CAP, the same logic applies unchanged, except that

1. CAP Extension is not supported for TPs. The extension logic can simply be removed,
because the facility is to be withdrawn at S80 even for CAPs, in readiness for transition to
TPs. See [MIGHLD] and section 9.1

2. The accounting calendar is represented by a different temporal Reference Data collection
“AccountingPeriods’, as described in [RDMCHLD] and Appendix B — Affected Reference
Data Collections. Here, each member of the collection represents a particular accounting
year (the object name is of the form <year>), and contains attributes named <ap>— one for
each Accounting Period, which corresponds 1:1 with a Trading Period. See Figure 4.

3. The algorithm for ascertaining the next TP is the same as described for determining the
next CAP, because the year end condition can be detected in just the same way. However,
if the proposed AP/TP does not exist in the current year, and the accounting calendar for
the next year is not yet available (which may be a likely scenario in the event of branches
rolling too frequently in the early life of Impact), then additional 'virtual' trading periods
can be generated, a new requirement directed by CP 3842, by simply adding I to the
current TP. In that situation, the software will select successive virtual TPs until the
accounting calendar becomes available, or until TP99 is reached. In either case, the next
TP selected will be TP1 of the next year.

4. Only when 99 periods have been used should the software assume TP I in the next
financial year. The use of virtual trading periods should only be used in the absence of
calendar data and may result in a rollover from a virtual Trading Period to a physical
trading period that is not contiguous, when missing calendar data is delivered

‘StockUalts Collection

EPOSSCAP Collestion

<Stock Unit> Office
BP ee I New Yeu I Previous TP Next
a ial <vyyy TP a TP
Ne Nt Ne
Persistent Objects ' Hi
t t
fi ‘
Reference Data 1 AccountingPeriods Collection '
: :
Hi L <yyyy> :
Hi NI N ‘

Figure 4 —- TPs and the AccountingPeriods Calendar

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 32 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5. As implied earlier, rollover to BPs is unaffected by the change from CAP to TP — the BP
number is simply incremented by I each time.

6. The business rules to detect early or late rollover will be based on the starting and ending
dates for the current TP (rather than CAP). Note that although the AccountingPeriods
calendar defines the start/end dates for each Accounting Period, the actual Trading Period
for a particular branch is offset from that to smooth the central POL workload at the end
of each Accounting Period. That offset is held in days, as an attribute of the branch-
specific OutletDetails object within the temporal Reference Data collection ‘Outlet’. See
Appendix B — Affected Reference Data Collections and Figure 5

AccountingPeriods Collection Outlet Collection
<YYYY> I OutletDetails
BTSOMMet
sD ED TP Start Date = <YYYY>.<AP>SD + BTSOfiset

TP End Date = <YYYY>.<AP>ED + BTSOfiset,

Figure 5 - TP Start/End Dates and the Accounting Period Offset

7. There is a case for preventing further TP rollovers if the current TP is already ahead of the
calendar. This would avoid futile user attempts to undo a rollover by rolling yet further
ahead in the vain hope of eventually getting back to where they started. However, this
requirement has not been stated in [CDBT] or [DP], so will not currently be implemented.

5.1.2.6 Final CAP Rollover and Transition

5.1.2.6.1 Determining the Final CAP

To achieve the Branch-by-Branch and Stock Unit-by-Stock Unit transition to TP-based
accounting, each Branch will have reference data that identifies the last CAP to be used.

Since this data is only needed to manage the transition and becomes obsolete thereafter, it is
defined within a set of CAP-specific SoftLaunch definitions controlled by branch-specific
products, rather than as new attributes of the branch-specific Outlet object. Where code needs
to determine the value of the last CAP, it can do so by obtaining it from the SoftLaunch
system attribute FINAL_CAP.

For more details, see [MIGHLD]

5.1.2.6.2 Determining the First TP

The first TP cannot simply be defined alongside FINAL_CAP as a Softlaunch system attribute
because the start and end dates for a particular TP depend on the branch-specific accounting
period offset. The appropriate first TP for a given FINAL_CAP must therefore be calculated
for each branch.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 33 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

It is desirable that this first TP is chosen such that its start and end dates include the date on
which the rollover from FINAL_CAP occurs. In principle this means using the physical
rollover date to determine the First TP. However, if rollover is undertaken a day or two early,
the wrong TP could be chosen, causing rollover into the next TP to be required almost
immediately. Another complication is that the ‘NextCAP’ field of EPOSSCAP.Office and
StockUnits.<SU> persistent objects is filled in on entry to FINAL_CAP, so might be different
to the actual next CAP (first TP) if that was determined on exit from FINAL_CAP using the
rollover date.

On the other hand, determining the first TP purely from the FINAL_CAP end date could
result in the wrong TP being chosen if rollover is done early or late and the FINAL_CAP end
date is not aligned with an Accounting Period boundary.

Since POL have now decided to carry out the transition in four tranches, corresponding to the
four branch offset values 0, 7, 14 and 21, and have chosen end date of the FINAL_CAP for
each case to be aligned with the boundary between one TP and the next, the simplest option is
to use the FINAL_CAP end date rather than the physical rollover date to determine the first
TP.

5.1.2.6.3. Avoiding CAP/TP Ambiguity at Year-End

Since CAP and TP values are held as alternative values in the same attributes of messages and
persistent objects, we need to avoid CAP/TP ambiguity when transitioning from CAP to TP
mode around financial year-end.

This is particularly a problem for objects in the StockUnitMarkers persistent object collection,
which are keyed on the CAP/TP number, and record rollover markers for the last 5 CAPs for
each stock unit to support message store scans.

The solution is to add a bias to the TP if the normal value would clash with a value already
recorded in StockUnitMarkers. The default bias is 60, and can be overridden by Type C ref
data if required (unlikely).

For simplicity of implementation, this bias will be visible, so the user may see TPs in the range
61-72 (or higher) rather than 1-12 (or higher).

The effect of the bias is that CAP 1-5 will transition to TP 61-62 instead of TP1-2. For an
office newly established in CAP mode, biasing may need be applied even though the first TP
does not clash with an existing CAP in the StockUnitMarkers history. For example, if the
office is established in CAP 3, it cannot transition to TP 1, because after two further TP
rollovers, TP 3 would clash with CAP 3 which would still be in the StockUnitMarkers history.

The decision whether to bias is therefore based on what StockUnitMarkers would have
contained if the office had been running for 5 rollovers, and is based on the StockUnitMarkers
entry for the DEF stock unit.

Note that once a bias is established for the first TP in a given financial year, it will be used for
the rest of that year to avoid further disruption to the numbering sequence, but will be
removed on starting the next financial year.

5.1.2.6.4 Effecting the Transition

Stock Unit and Office rollovers will compare the current CAP against this FINAL_CAP value
(if available), and if the next CAP would be beyond it, the new CAP will be set to the first TP
instead of FINAL_CAP+1, and be marked as being in TP mode (see below).

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 34 of 135

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Thus when a Stock Unit rolls forward from FINAL_CAP, it will enter the first TP
(irrespective of the current physical date), but as described earlier, the TP value will continue
to be recorded in the existing ‘CAP’ variables of the StockUnits and EPOSSCAP Office
persistent objects (for backwards compatibility)

5.1.2.6.5 Coping with Transitional States

Prior to TP transition, the Previous/Current/Next CAP values in the StockUnit and Office
persistent objects all identify CAPs, and all User Interface legends and reports must show
“CAP” legends as at present

On entering FINAL_CAP, the ‘Next CAP’ value will refer to the first TP, so will have the first
TP value rather than FINAL_CAP+1. Any User Interface legend or report referring to that
value must show a ‘TP’ legend, but ones referring to the Previous or Current CAPs must still
show a ‘CAP’ legend.

On rolling forward to the first TP, legends or reports referring to the Current or Next CAP
must now show a ‘TP’ legend, but any references to the Previous CAP must still show a
“CAP” legend.

Finally, on rolling forward into the second TP, all current legends and reports must show a
“TP” legend - but see also Historical Reports(5. 1.2.7.6).

To support these decisions, the StockUnit and EPOSSCAP Office persistent objects will
record additional transition status fields ‘TP’ and ‘TPTransition’. (See Table 3 and Appendix
C — Affected Persistent Object Collections). Note that these values for a Stock Unit do not
necessarily match that of the Office because a particular Stock Unit will be ahead of the Office
once it has rolled over to the next CAP/TP

<TP:> <TPTransition: I Meaning
>

Missing/empty I Missing/empty I StockUnit/Office is operating in CAP mode.
CAP/PreviousCAP/NextCAP are all CAP-based values

Missing/empty I 1 StockUnivOffice is operating in CAP mode (in the
FINAL_CAP)
CAP/PreviousCAP are CAP-based values; NextCAP is TP based

1 1 StockUnit/Office is operating in TP mode (in the first TP).
PreviousCAP is CAP-based value; CAP/NextCAP are TP-based
values

I Missing/empty I CAP/PreviousCAP/NextCAP are all TP-based values

Table 3 - TP Transition Status Values

Note that most code is only interested in the mode for the current CAP (in order to output an
appropriate legend for a prompt or report), in which case the presence of the <TP:> attribute
is sufficient to determine whether operating in TP mode or not.

Code that handles rollover can cater for special cases during the transition by using
<TPTransition:> to decide on detailed action. For example, the message prompt that asks
whether the user wishes to roll forward into the next BP or CAP would need to be replaced by
one that asks about rolling forward into BP or TP instead. However this revised question

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 35 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

would apply from FINAL_CAP onwards, rather than from the first TP, so the code that
outputs it would need to test TP and TPTransition to determine the appropriate state.

5.1.2.6.6 Special cases

Rollover into TP from an Extended CAP should not occur, since the option to extend the CAP
is to be disabled at an earlier point in the migration (see [DP] section 2.6.2). However, in the
event that the time gap between Point 20 and FINAL_CAP is too short, it might be possible
for an extended CAP to be set that is later than FINAL_CAP.

Resilience dictates that something sensible should be done if this happens. In particular if the
designated FINAL_CAP is skipped. Similarly, we need to be resilient to conditions such as the
FINAL_CAP values being missing or in the past?

The answer is to use greater than checks rather than strict equality. Thus determination of the
next CAP will select the first TP if FINAL_CAP is present and less than or equal to the
current CAP (including the year), otherwise it will select current CAP + 1 (subject to year-
end) as now.

If FINAL_CAP is defined, but the first TP cannot be determined, transition to TP mode will
be suppressed (with appropriate error message), and the branch will continue in CAP mode to
current CAP + I (just as if FINAL_CAP had been missing).

Note that year-end does not cause a special case for transition, because week 52 is only
treated specially when setting a CAP Extension. (Remembering of course comparison of
current CAP against FINAL_CAP must take account of the year as well as the period).

5.1.2.6.7 Switching between TP and CAP Modes

During the period where one Stock Unit has rolled over into TP mode, but another is still
operating in CAP mode, it may be necessary for the user to switch between TP-based menus
and CAP-based menus — e.g. whenever they switch Stock Units (by logoff/logon or by explicit
Stock Unit reattachment). This is handled by invoking SoftLaunch dynamically to update the
desktop menus according to the state being entered. See section 9.1.2 and [MIGHLD] for
more details.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 36 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.2.7 User Interface and Report Changes

Changes must be made to the User Interface and reports in order to replace “CAP” by ‘TP’. .
The following situations need to be dealt with:

e ‘CAP’ (or similar) text is burnt into code
e ‘CAP’ (or similar) text is burnt into Global Objects
e ‘CAP’ (or similar) text is burnt into Reference Data

‘CAP’ (or similar) text is burnt into persistent objects and output more or less
transparently
The following sections consider the changes, and identify techniques to handle these cases,
bearing in mind that

e S80 code and reference data must accurately emulate pre-S80 systems until new
behaviour is explicitly activated as part of the migration strategy described in
Migration (9.1) and [MIGHLD].

e During the transition the current Stock Unit may be in a different mode to that of the
Office or other Stock Units, which affects the decision on whether ‘CAP’ or ‘TP’
should be output.

5.1.2.7.1 Desktop Status Area

When the desktop is idle for a logged-in user, the status area on the right-hand side identifies
the current CAP for the Stock Unit to which the user is attached.

Figure 6 - Example of CAP legend on menu button and status area

The ‘CAP’ legend in the status area is currently output by hard-coded logic in the
EPOSSStockUnit code whenever the Stock Unit is updated. Since the decision to output CAP
or TP depends on whether the particular StockUnit has yet rolled into TP, and that fact is
recorded as a property of the StockUnit persistent object, the code simply needs to test that
property before outputting ‘CAP’ or ‘TP’ as appropriate. The actual ‘CAP’ or ‘TP’ text will
now be taken from the appropriate attribute of the Reference Data 12.3 (see Appendix B —
Affected Reference Data Collections)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 37 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.2.7.2 Reports

Reports are composed from common report sections included in sequence, which in turn
contain item definitions. Some item definitions have the string CAP (or CAP-related text)
burnt into them.

The section definitions are provided as global object data in the EPOSSRSect collection (see
Appendix B — Affected Reference Data Collections). Access to global objects is achieved
similarly to reference data in Riposte message store, (and indeed at one time global objects
were just that). However, they now have separate implementation on top of the datafile
“globalobjects.dat’, and this file is shipped at the same time as code. Therefore, it is OK to
replace hard-coded CAP legends by infills because updated global objects do not have to work
with pre-S80 code.

For example, the report header object 4601 (‘Office Header 40 cols’) contains the item
definition ‘CAP Label’, defined as plain text, with a parameter value of “CAP’., and the item
‘CAP’, defined as a system variable infill, with a parameter value of ‘OfficeCAP’

:CAP Label><IT:PlainText> ...<OIV:CAP:>...>
<I:<N:CAP><IT-SystemVariable> ...<O1V:OfficeCAP:>...>

The PlainText legend item can be changed to be of type ‘SystemVariable’, with a single
parameter of (say) ‘OfficeCAPLegend’, but because of the transition period when the current
Stock Unit is operating in TP mode but the Office as a whole is still operating in CAP mode,
the choice of CAP/TP legend depends on whether the report is for the current TP-mode
StockUnit or not.

That is not in itself a problem, because distinct report sections are already used for those
cases, and the clue is in the system variable used to provide the actual CAP/TP value —
OfficeCAP retrieves the CAP for the Office, whereas CurrentCAP retrieves the CAP for the
StockUnit. However, in some cases the choice of CAP/TP is based on parameters passed
rather than context information.

The general solution approach is to introduce a distinct legend type for each value type. Thus
the SystemVariable OfficeCAP would be paired with a new SystemVariable
OfficeCAPLegend, and the PassedParameter SelectedCAP would be paired with a new
PassedParameter SelectedCAPLegend. The internal details of how these fields are to be
supported by the Report Broker and its clients will be covered in the low level design, but the
context information to support any TP/CAP decision will be based on the TP transition status
for the StockUnit or Office as appropriate (see Final CAP Rollover and Transition (5.1.2.6)).
See also Historical Reports (5.1.2.7.6) for the special case of ‘SelectedCAP’.

Another issue is the reporting of Cash Account week numbers. In the steady state TP system,
those reports are obsolete, so there is little point in doing a perfect job of mapping them onto
TP numbers. For example the Cash Account report contains a heading ‘CA Header 7’ contains
plain text ‘week ending’. This could (in principal) be converted to say something like ‘period
ending’ in the same way as CAP is replaced by TP, but it is not worthwhile because the entire
report will become obsolete, so it will not be changed.

5.1.2.7.3 Desktop Menu Buttons

Some desktop menu buttons have CAP-related text burnt into them. Others need to be
revealed or suppressed according to whether the Stock Unit has been rolled into TP yet or not
(or indeed whether S80 functionality is yet to be made visible).

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 38 of 135

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

The button definitions for particular menus are provided as objects in temporal Reference Data
collections called ‘DesktopButtonsIItem<n>’ in Riposte message store, and the required effect
will be achieved by use of [SOFTLAUNCH].

On attaching to a Stock Unit (e.g. during logon), EPOSS will invoke SoftLaunch dynamically
in order to refresh the desktop buttons with ones suitable to the CAP/TP mode of that Stock
Unit. On rolling a Stock Unit or Office into TP mode, EPOSS will similarly invoke
SoftLaunch dynamically in order to refresh the desktop buttons for the new mode.

See section 9.1.2 and [MIGHLD] for more details.

5.1.2.7.4 Messages

Some User Interface prompts and messages have CAP-related text burnt into them. These
messages are provided as objects in the ‘MessageDefs’ temporal Reference Data collection in
Riposte message store.

For example, message 58 (MSG_ROLLINTONEXTCAP) contains the text

“Do you wish to roll over into the next Cash Account Period (%NextCAP%) or into the next Balance Period in
this CAP (%ThisCAP%/%NextBP%)?”.

unt ReriodI(13) or,
intojtheimext Balance
I PeriadIimthis CAP (12/2)

Figure 7- Example of Message containing CAP-specific text

Rather than replace ‘Cash Account Period’ by a new infill %CashAccountPeriodLegend%
(say), which would cause problems if used with pre-S80 code, the solution is to provide
alternative messages, and make the S80 code select the variant according to whether the
current Stock Unit or Office is operating in TP mode, as applicable (sce 13.1). Note that this
does not involve SoftLaunch, because the messages are output by code directly.

See the MessageDefs Collection (Appendix C — Affected Persistent Object Collections) for a
list of CAP-related messages that need to be handled in this way.
5.1.2.7.5 Report Criteria

Some report criteria have CAP-related text burnt into them. The criteria definitions are
provided as objects in the ‘RepCriteria’ temporal Reference Data collection in Riposte
message store.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 39 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005,
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Figure 8 — Example of CAP Legend in Report Criteria

For example, the report tablet in Figure 8 shows an ‘Office CAP’ legend by virtue of the
report referring to report criteria object 9, which has value

<RData:<Data:<Name: OfficeCAP> <Prompt: Office CAP><Type: OfficeCAP>>>

Since such criteria are shipped as reference data, they have the same problem as messages -
hardcoded ‘CAP’ texts cannot be simply replaced by ‘TP’ or new infills, because they would
not work with pre-S80 code.

A blanket replacement of ‘CAP’ by ‘TP’ would give the wrong effect during transition — a
report for a Stock Unit that has rolled into the first TP should have a TP legend, but one for a
Unit that is still in the final CAP should retain the CAP legend. The solution is to select the
appropriate criteria object alternative according to its ‘Type’ attribute and the
StockUnit/Office transition status. Thus when used with pre-S80 code, or post-S80 code for a
Branch or Stock Unit still operating in CAP mode, the original CAP-only criteria would be
selected.

For the criteria selections that are specified as part of the desktop buttons for the appropriate
Reports submenu, this will be achieved by use of SoftLaunch, as described for Desktop Menu
Buttons (5.1.2.7.3).

For example, if the Stock Unit is operating in TP mode, but the Office is still in CAP mode,
then desktop buttons relating to reports for the current Stock Unit should be made to refer to
TP criteria variants, but those relating to reports for the Office (as in the example above)
should be made to refer to the pre-S80 CAP criteria variants.

However, some reports specify the criteria selection dynamically (see Historical Reports
(5.1.2.7.6). For these, the code logic must check the mode of the relevant period and select
the CAP/TP criteria accordingly.

5.1.2.7.6 Historical Reports

When requesting a report reprint or other report that is not specific to the current StockUnit
or Office context, the user must specify the particular period. In some cases this is by physical
date range, but in others it is by a particular CAP.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 40 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

This is currently done by presenting a picklist of available CAPs, based on entries in the
“StockUnitMarkers’ collection (if related to a particular StockUnit) or the ‘OfficeRePrints’
collection (if related to the entire Office), but the picklist entries are generated to be of the
form ‘CAPnn’ or ‘CAPnn-BPn’. This would be a problem if the output text should instead be
‘TPnn’ or ‘TPnn-BPn’ once transition to TP mode is complete. Even worse, during the
transitional period, there would need to be a mixture of CAP and TP texts presented.

However, [DP] section 2.5.1.3.8 indicates that these reports will be changed to report a date
range, so will no longer need a CAP-based picklist entry during period selection.

The current approach to date selection is by direct user entry of physical start and end dates
While this may remain appropriate for ad hoc event log reports, it makes little sense for
reprints, since only particular dates are available. Therefore, a picklist will be required for
these, showing the date range for each report to be reprinted rather than the CAP.

For reports that cover a physical date range, the individual entries are often described in terms
of the CAP/BP in which they occur. For example, the event log report in Figure 9 has ‘CAP’,
“BP” and ‘NODE’ column headings applicable to event descriptions for the periods CAP 8 and
CAP 11.

opr FAD: 9017777
11:38 12/07/2004 CAP:15 BP:02 SU:SUL
lEvent: Log: Balancing - Office Copy

SU USER CAP BP NODE
PATE AND TIME EVENT TITLE
[EVENT DESCRIPTION

SUL MIGROL 08 02 O1
25/06/2004 10:03 Declaration Complete
(NCH Total £0.00

SU1 MIGROL 08 02 O1
25/06/2004 10:03 Declaration Complete
DeclareCash Total £0.00

SUL MIGROL 08 62 O1
25/06/2004 10:04 Declaration Complete
PeclareStamp Total £0.00

(SUL MIGROL 11 01 01
25/06/2004 10:21 Rollover Complete
[SU SUL rolled : CAP 8 BP 2 to CAP 11 BP 1

Figure 9 - Event Log Report Spanning Multiple CAPs

If the range of periods being reported span the transition from CAP to TP, then the column
headings will either need to be changed as the boundary is crossed, or be inaccurate before or
after the transition.

Since the most useful information is actually in the report row (e.g. ‘SU SUI rolled : CAP 8
BP 2 to CAP 11 BP 1’) rather than the column headings, it is proposed that the heading will

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 41 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

simply be changed to ‘TP’ if the Office or StockUnit has now entered TP mode — i.e. the
column headings will be in step with the overall report heading rather than the content of
particular rows.

5.1.2.8 I MiMAN Migration
There continues to be a requirement to introduce new offices to Horizon.

Introducing Horizon to branches requires migration strategies from any prior systems. The
two existing strategies are MiECCO (for branches previously operating the ECCO system)
and MiMAN (for branches operating a manual system, or starting from scratch).

There is no requirement for MiECCO to support migration to Horizon in Branch Trading
mode, because the ECCO-based branches have already been migrated to Horizon (operating in
Cash Account mode). The MiEcco service has already since been withdrawn.

Whilst originally conceived to migrate existing branches operating manual systems to Horizon,
MiMan has continued to be used as the vehicle to support the opening of new branches. Such
a circumstance needs to occur, for example, following temporary closure or in the case of a
temporary office such as that opened for Wimbledon fortnight.

As part of Impact Release 3 a new version of MiMan will be introduced. It will support the
creation of new branches from migration point 20 and hence will support both new branches
introduced and operating using Cash Account Periods, and new branches operating trading
periods.

The variant of MiMan will operate differently from the existing application in the following
key areas:

e The current main purpose of MiMAN is to capture the initial assets, using Cash
Account mappings to formulate dynamic data capture screen dialogues. As part of
Impact Release 3 the migration of a new branch will merely provide a checkpoint of
migration completion. Any initial assets of the office must then be introduced using
remittance transactions.

e The migration report produced as part of MiMan becomes obsolete as there is no
captured data to report.

e The migration of a new branch needs to address whether the office is to be migrated
into a Cash Account Period or a Branch Trading Period. Branches will all be migrated
to Cash Account Periods prior to point 30, and may be migrated to either beyond that
to point 50.

A new application is required to be developed as part of Impact Release 3 to replace the
existing MiMan application at Point 20 in the migration path. It will be initiated by desktop
button in the same way as the existing manual migration. Activation of the new application
will be driven by softlaunch controlled by existence of the S80 codebase.

The new application will be based on the existing MiMan program, however all the data
capture functionality will be removed as will the migration report.

The application will use mechanisms defined in 5.1.2.6 to determine whether the branch is to
be migrated into either a CAP or TP. The user will no longer have the option to override the
pre-determined value.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 42 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

All other processing of the MiMan variant will remain as undertaken by Miman; the branch
will be migrated into BP2 of the chosen accounting period.

It will be necessary however for the application to prepare further opening figures if the
branch is migrated to a TP. The final Stock Unit and Office Rollover figures prepared when
moving from CAP to TP prepare additional information for BTS production. Whilst no actual
data is required any mandatory preparation of figures must be undertaken.

It is proposed that the current Administration Menu Button F3 Migration simply becomes an
application to initiate and complete migration. It will engage a much simpler dialogue than the
migration process demands at present

Note that the ability to create stock units before migration is complete must also be inhibited.
Thus the new migration application launched from the Administration menu will:

e Determine the appropriate CAP or TP from calendar and Impact Transition
information.

© Checkpoint the branch to designate the branch as migration complete.

e Put up a dialogue advising migration complete, and state the accounting period into
which the office is migrated.

e Re-enable creation of stock units

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 43 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.3 Introduction of Aggregation Engine for Volume Stock

The handling of Stock By Volume for Impact Release 3 requires changes to the Balancing
Figures Aggregation. The main visible impact of this is on the Stock Unit and Office Balancing
Reports the format of which will change to accommodate stock by volume rather than by
value. The introduction of monthly rather than one week accounting periods also has an
impact on the aggregation of figures as a larger volume of data will contribute to the balancing
process performance.

Aggregation of figures for most balancing and reporting tasks is the responsibility of a
component of EPOSS, EPOSS Data Server.

5.1.3.1. Data Server Architecture

Simplistically Data Server provides an aggregation engine that acts in response to client
application invocations to summarise raw transaction data into a hierarchic aggregation
structure specified as reference data and known as the EPOSS Accounting Node Hierarchy.
Data Server then exposes APIs which may be utilised by the client application methods to
retrieve the summarised data as required for reporting or the preparation of rollover figures.
The Node Hierarchy represents the way in which summarised transaction data is presented for
analysis by the Post Office on reports. Hence the aggregation structure is owned by the Post
Office. The architecture is depicted in the following diagram.

'
Aggregation Function : Retrieval Function

Summation View Retrieval View

Client Application

Transaction Query

Data Server

Data Aggregation

Figure 10 — Data Server Architecture

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 44 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Data Server can be seen as providing two logical functions to client applications:
e Aggregation Function
¢ Retrieval Function

The Aggregation Function supports the Client Application passing parameters in the form of a
Query that defines the transactions to be taken into account in compiling that aggregation, and
a Summation View that defines what attributes are to be aggregated and how. Data Server
applies accumulation rules, for example summing attribute values or counting attribute
occurrences, to cach transaction satisfying the Transaction Query to produce data aggregation
figures for each item in the summation view. The resulting data aggregation is available in
memory for the client application to use, whether to process summary figures or for reporting.

The Retrieval Function exposes APIs to the Client application in order that it may invoke
retrieval methods that access the accumulated data, returning values for reporting or further
processing.

The following overview of the primary elements of data server describes the basic architecture
of data server.

5.1.3.1.1 EPOSS Transactions

The raw data aggregated by Data Server is furnished from messages previously posted to the
Riposte Message Store, filtered by conditions specified in the Transaction Query. Data Server
is primarily concerned with the aggregation of figures for branch reporting and balancing.
Hence the main category of message forming the raw data are EPOSS Transactions.

5.1.3.1.2 Node Structure

The Data Aggregation structure is provided by Reference Data. The Collection
<EPOSSNodes:> first provides the objects which define a static structure. The static Node
Structure provides the post office view of how ALL transaction postings are to be analysed in
branches across the entire network. There are two such structures modelled in EPOSSNodes
at present. The first is the Accounting Node Hierarchy and the second is the Cash Account
Node Hierarchy. The Cash Account Node hierarchy will cease to be maintained after all
branches have migrated to S80.

The Accounting Node Hierarchy is the vehicle which defines, for example, that movements of
cash shall be analysed as a total, within the category (node) of Methods of Payment, and that
Methods of Payment form part of the overall stock total, within the total office balance.

At each level of analysis, defined by a node, a number of accumulators are defined, Each

accumulator, or bucket, defines what items of accumulation are supported by that specific
node. Currently the following accumulators are defined:

e Sale Value (sv)
© Quantity (qty)
e Number of Transactions (rc)

A more expansive explanation of the Accounting Node Hierarchy is provided in 15.0. The
static Node reference data specification is provided in Appendix B — Affected Reference Data
Collections.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 45 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

The Accounting Node hierarchy will be extended as a result of changes to the way by which
transaction data is aggregated as a result of S80.

In order to support products defined as stock to be managed by volume the set of nodes
forming the Accounting Node Hierarchy will be extended. New sub-branches of the hierarchy
will be defined under the Receipts Node definitions. These new sub-branches to the structure
will provide the nodes against which sale and adjustment transactions of volume stock will be
recorded, and support the concept of Tertiary Mapping explained later. As volume stock
transactions no longer contribute to value stock movement nodes of the structure, yet their
sale and adjustment transactions need reporting on balance reports these additions to the
structure are necessary.

Additionally new Accumulators will be defined against the existing Value Stock Node sub-
branch structure. These new Accumulators will allow conditional accumulation of transaction
attributes, their purpose being to accumulate based on whether the contributing product is
volume stock or not. The provision of these new accumulators will allow the total value stock
nodes to represent a figure which excludes volume stock, even though transactions still
contribute to the hierarchy by virtue of their primary mapping.

5.1.3.1.3 Transaction Query

The transactions to be taken into account in any one accumulation are provided to Data
Server by the client application as a Transaction Query in the form of a criteria string. The
string will contain a set of attribute name, operator and value conditions that together can
match EPOSS Transaction attributes of the transactions to be considered. An example string
could be:

sCriteria = "<SelectExpression:(EPOSSTransaction.SM.L5 EQ ""3017""
OR EPOSS Transaction. PM.L5 EQ ""3017"") "

& "AND ((NOT Exists(EPSSTransaction. OpeningFiguresId))
OR (EPOSS Transaction. OpeningFiguresId EQ """"))) "

Also provided will be a pair of bound values which specify the lower and upper markers of
transactions to be considered, so as to avoid unnecessary processing of the entire message
store. Ordinarily the lower marker is likely to be the last rollover marker and the upper marker
will be the current latest message. Upper Markers are more often provided for specific use in
undertaking report reprints.

5.1.3.1.4 Summation View

The set of transactions to be aggregated in any one summarisation is defined by the transaction
query. The static structure into which the data is aggregated is provided by the Reference Data
Collection <EPOSSNodes:>. Any transaction posted shall be capable of being aggregated into
this static structure.

There is also to be considered though, the concept of a dynamic structure. For example a
particular report may examine transactions as a group, by Stock Unit within Balance Period.
In other words whilst the analysis structure is static the summarisation of transactions within
that structure is dynamic depending on the needs of the client, and what transactions are
encountered.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 46 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

The summation view provides a specification (or template) of how the transactions themselves
are to be grouped and what attributes within or about the transaction are to be used to
accommodate that grouping. Again further explanation is provided in 15.0.

The summation View is provided by specifying an object reference to another collection of
reference data, <EPOSSDNodes:>.

A DNode, or Dynamic Node, specifies a dynamic node structure, providing the template to be
used to group (and order) transactions for a particular report (client use). As data server
builds up the data aggregation it compiles a dynamic picture of nodes (now dynamic nodes)
representing the transactions as an instance of the picture provided by the dynamic node
template. As each transaction contributes to this dynamic picture if its position within the
dynamic structure requires a new instance of one of the groupings then dynamically data
server creates a new grouping instance. So for example as a minimum data server will have a
dynamic node instance for each product, aggregating all transactions transacting that product.

For each transaction selected in the Transaction Query, like the static node structure, the
DNode specifies what actions are to be taken to aggregate that transaction's data into the
dynamic picture. A typical Dynamic Node is specified in 12.0.

Again, the following attributes may be aggregated:

e Sale Value (sv)

e Quantity (qty)
e¢ Number of Transactions (rc)

5.1.3.1.5 Data Aggregation

The outcome of the Aggregation Function is a Data Aggregation in memory, defined in a
structure the template of which is provided by EPOSSNodes, together with EPOSSDNodes.
The content of the aggregation is compiled from the application of accumulation rules which
satisfy the summation view, to transaction attributes of those transactions which meet the
criteria in the given Transaction Query. A representation of the aggregation picture is
provided in the following diagram:

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 47 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

EPOSSNode and
Report Criteria EPOSSDNode
fi Specification

Riposte Message

‘Store SELECTED

TRANSACTION

—_ MESSAGES

EPOSSDNode
a tt

EPOSSONode
i

Figure 11 — Data Aggregation

5.1.3.1.6 Retrieval View

The aggregated data is made available back to the client application by data server exposing
API's to the client. A defined set of retrieval methods may be invoked to return the details of
the aggregation.

5.1.3.2 Accumulation Rules and Accumulators

Crucial to the changes required of Data Server is an understanding of the inner processes
involving the concepts of accumulation rules and accumulators. From the outset it was stated
that data server applies accumulation rules to populate the accumulators defined in the node
structures, whether static or dynamic.

5.1.3.2.1 Accumulators

Both the static and dynamic accounting node structures support the concept of an
Accumulator. An accumulator is an aggregation 'bucket' and is associated with a specific Node
(noting that this can be a node from the static hierarchy or built dynamically). The node
defines a specific level of business analysis eg. the aggregation of data about MOPs is
contained in Node 3003, and each accumulator provides the specific items of information that
can be gleaned from the aggregation of data in that node.

Currently three accumulators are defined:
e Sale Value (sv), the total of all transaction sales analysed by node

e Sale Quantity (qty), the total volume of transaction product sale quantities analysed by
node

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 48 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

e Number of Transactions (rc), the total number of transactions contributing to the node

5.1.3.2.2 Accumulation Rules

The Accounting Node Hierarchy provides a structure into which transaction information is
aggregated or summarised. As stated each Node provides a bucket, or 'pigeon hole’ into which
corresponding transactions can be 'mapped’.

The relationship between the static node hierarchy and transactions is made by the attributes of
the Primary Mapping (PM:) and the Secondary Mapping (SM:), if it is present, in each
transaction. A new Tertiary Mapping (<TM:>) is now conditionally added to each transaction.

The primary mapping is a mandatory attribute of each transaction and provides the
transactions’ position within the hierarchy for the purposes of accumulating debit and credit
value of all transactions entered.

The secondary mapping is a conditional attribute of transactions. It is assigned to a transaction
based on the specific mode the transaction is conducted in. Not all modes have secondary
mappings. Its use relates entirely to the movement of stock and it provides, in total, the total
movement of stock in a particular mode.

The tertiary mapping is a conditional attribute of the transaction. It is assigned to a transaction
based upon whether the product being transacted is a volume stock product and on the mode
the transaction is conducted in being a specific mode.

Transactions which are accumulated will comprise both product movements and Opening
Figures, specified by the transaction query criteria. Each transaction that satisfies the selection
criteria of transaction query will have its attributes accumulated into the aggregation based on
the presence of the primary, secondary and tertiary mappings, as follows:

For the Primary Mapping,

Accumulate values of the sale value, quantity and Number of Transactions into each
node identified by the nodes in the PM:, according to the presence of the appropriate
accumulators.

For the Secondary Mapping

If the transaction has a Secondary Mapping, accumulate values of the sale value,
quantity and Number of Transactions into each node identified by the nodes in the SM:,
according to the presence of the appropriate accumulators.

For the Tertiary Mapping

If the transaction has a Tertiary Mapping, accumulate values of the sale value, quantity
and Number of Transactions into each node identified by the nodes in the TM:,
according to the presence of the appropriate accumulators.

The accumulation rules are independent of the accumulators; in other words the accumulation
rules are applied to all accumulators. Currently the accounting node hierarchy defines all nodes
to contain all accumulators, hence given any one aggregation, all three attributes are
accumulated.

5.1.3.3 Changes to Data Server

The Data Server architecture will remain largely unchanged. Two primary changes are
required to the Data Server to support handling stock by volume. The existing version of Data

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 49 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Server will be enhanced. Initially it was considered that a copy of data server should be taken
and a new version developed so that any risk of error could be isolated. Analysis of the
changes required to data server however has revealed that the changes are minimal and not
invasive. Thereby the risks of error associated with these changes are limited, and when
weighed up against having to maintain two versions of the component, justification for
enhancing the existing version of data server is made. The enhanced Data Server will be
adopted for all balance reports, including the Office Snapshot.

5.1.3.3.1 Introducing Conditional Accumulators

The first change to data server is required to support stock handling by Volume. This
necessitates the transaction rules will change.

A new concept is introduced - the conditional accumulator. A conditional accumulator
combines the introduction of a new accumulator, with an accumulation rule, defined by a new
Accumulator Function. In other words unlike existing accumulators which have the same
accumulation rule applied to all nodes to which the transaction maps, a conditional
accumulator will only have data aggregated if the rule is satisfied. Their purpose is to
accumulate an attribute from contributing transactions based on specific conditions being met,
so as to preclude, or exclusively include, transactions that make up value stock, excluding
products that have been re-nominated as volume stock.

The following conditional accumulators are introduced. The accumulators are specified
against the appropriate Reference Data Node Item. Not all accumulators will apply to all
nodes.

Accumulator I Function Condition Rules

SVETM SumETM If Transaction Product has a Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value, then accumulate Sale Value into accumulators
for nodes identified by transaction mappings. In other words
when applying the Primary and Secondary Mappings of a
transaction, if the transaction product is denoted as volume
stock this accumulator will be applied. This accumulator is
redundant if applied to a Tertiary Mapping Node

QtyETM SumETM If Transaction Product has a Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value then accumulate Quantity into accumulators
for nodes identified by transaction mappings. In other words
when applying the Primary and Secondary Mappings of a
transaction, if the transaction is denoted as volume stock this
accumulator will be applied. This accumulator is redundant if
applied to a Tertiary Mapping Node

RCETM CountETM I If Transaction Product has a Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value then increment accumulators for nodes
identified by transaction mappings. In other words when
applying the Primary and Secondary Mappings of a
transaction, if the transaction is denoted as volume stock this
accumulator will be incremented by 1. This accumulator is
redundant if applied to a Tertiary Mapping Node.

A non-zero value of the accumulator indicates that volume

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 50 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

stock products mapping to this node have been transacted,
and can be used to decide whether the node should be
reported in the ‘Volume Stock’ section of a Stock Unit
Balance Report.

SVNTM SumNTM I If Transaction Product has no Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value then accumulate Sale Value into accumulators
for nodes identified by transaction mappings

QtyNTM SumNTM_ I If Transaction product has no Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value then accumulate Quantity into accumulators
for nodes identified by transaction mappings

RCNTM CountNTM I If Transaction product has no Tertiary Mapping (TM:)
attribute value then increment accumulators for nodes
identified by transaction mappings. A non-zero value of the
accumulator indicates that value stock products mapping to
this node have been transacted, and can be used to decide
whether the node should be reported in the ‘Value Stock and
MOP’ section of a Stock Unit Balance Report.

Table 4 - Conditional Accumulator Types

A Tertiary Mapping is a new attribute introduced onto transactions which transact stock, that
is now to be handled by volume rather than value. The existing Accumulators will continue to
be applied without change. The Tertiary Mapping Attribute, <TM:>, is in exactly the same
format as PM: and SM:.

The changes required satisfy the proposals made in [DP] at 2.5.1.4.

5.1.3.3.2 Improving Data Server Performance

Secondly, to support balancing by trading period the volume of transaction data to be
processed in any one accounting period is likely to increase substantially. Whilst the promoted
use of Balance Periods will assist in minimising loss of accounting control over the longer
duration of Trading Periods the amount of data to be processed means that performance may
become an issue.

The addition of the new accumulation functions and the presence of tertiary mappings on
many transactions compounds this problem.

To this end, the opportunity to improve Data Server Performance will be taken in two specific
areas. There is no stated requirement to improve performance of counter functionality. Equally
however performance must not be degraded. The increased workload to maintain information
about stock by volume necessitates data server performs additional work.

A Forecast Change has also been specified (see 0.6 Changes Expected) in the event of
continued problems with Data Server performance, and in particular the ability to produce
balance reports without any degradation in performance as a result on the changes required
for Impact Release 3. The forecast change recognises that performance can be substantially
improved with a change to the architectural approach given to transaction accumulation,
though the change does come with some risk.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 51 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Any invocation of data server to aggregate a sct of transactions can be divided into three
phases:

e Initialisation, a one off task that includes the building of the static accounting node
hierarchy template in memory from reference data. In other words an empty tree in
memory is built

e Retrieval Cycle, the main part of the aggregation, to process all transactions satisfying
the selection criteria.

e Termination, a set of tasks to end the aggregation

Attention to the following non-invasive changes will assist in ensuring that data server
performance is not degraded:

e Remove the static accounting node hierarchy tree build as part of initialisation unless
balancing is being performed

e Remove unused or misused accounting node hierarchy node accumulators in reference
data

Removal of static tree build

An empty aggregation tree is built by data server as part of initialisation. This means that a
complete tree is built regardless of what nodes will actually be needed by the transactions
needing aggregation.

The static tree build as part of initialisation will be removed and replaced by a dynamic tree
build as part of retrieval cycle, building only those elements of the tree that are required by
transactions being aggregated.

Removal of reference data accumulators

The static accounting node hierarchy defined by the reference data collection EPOSSNodes
essentially defines three accumulators for each and every node currently. They are sv, qty and
rc as previously introduced.

Examination of what those node accumulators would represent, should transactions be
summarised into them, reveals their semantic to be flawed or meaningless. The use of such
accumulators to report transaction summary information would provide results of little
meaning.

By removing those accumulators that have no use the reference data definitions can be
simplified and performance of data server improved. The following changes to node
accumulators will be implemented in reference data. It should be noted that the new
accumulators will only be defined on those nodes where they are required from the outset.

«All accumulators will be removed from the static root node 3017

e All qty accumulators will be removed from all Level 5, 4 and 3 Nodes

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 52 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.4 Amendment of Transaction Attributes for Volume Stock

The handling of Stock By Volume for Impact Release 3 requires changes to the way
transactions are recorded, and in the case of stock movement (remittances and transfers),
changes to the value of the transaction movement. The main visible impact of this is on the
transaction stack when products are transacted as a movement.

Four changes are required to the way transactions are conducted:

e Products that are to be handled by volume henceforth will have a new attribute
associated with them, a Tertiary Mapping, <TM:>. In order to be able to record the
sale of such products correctly, the <TM:> attribute will be assigned a value in
transactions recorded for such products.

e The movement of volume stock products, transacted in remittance or transfer modes,
requires that the transaction value will be recorded as zero.

e The settlement of all transactions will henceforth be handled by POL Products rather
than POA products.

e Transactions recorded by APS must be posted via EPOSS Core in order to implement
all changes to transactions structures resulting from the introduction of volume stock

Consequential to the introduction of handling stock by volume rather than by value is the
proposal to merge the resulting volume stock with non-value stock.

5.1.4.1 Identification of Volume Stock

The information required to identify those products that are to be managed as stock by volume
as opposed to value, is all provided by POL Reference Data.

The EPOSSProducts Collection ([RDMCHLD)) currently defines all Value stock by the
attribute <I:True>. Henceforth the <I:> attribute shall be deemed to define "Inventory" Stock
if set to True. In other words all stock that is controlled as part of the branch inventory is
identified by <I:True>

Inventory Stock can be defined as either Value Stock or Volume Stock as a result of Impact
Release 3. As a result a new attribute as part of each EPOSSProducts Object is defined. The
attribute is <VolS:> and takes a value of True or False. A value of True indicates the stock is
volume stock, and a value of False indicates the stock is Value Stock.

All Product Objects defined as Inventory Stock and as Volume Stock will have an additional
attribute <TM:>, a tertiary mapping. The tertiary mapping is defined in exactly the same
format as a primary mapping (<PM:>) or secondary mapping (<SM:>) and represents the
mapping of the product into the receipts or payments table, when transacted other than as a
movement, normally serve customer. The primary mapping attribute is still defined for Volume
Stock Products.

New elements to support Tertiary Mapping nodes will be set up as EPOSSNodes Collections
as described in 12.4.

The following table summarises.
<I> Value I <VolS:> Value I <I?'M:> Defined I Product Set Defined

False Not Relevant No Non-stock Products, eg. Receipts or Payments
Products

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 53 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
True True Yes The set of Stock Products managed by Volume
True False No The set of Stock Products managed by Value

5.1.4.2 Changes to all Transactions

EPOSSCore will be amended to record the new attributes <ITM:> and <VolS:> as part of all
transactions. This is because they are used by DataServer when accumulating transactions in
bulk into appropriate accumulators, so need to be easily available without incurring the
overhead of retrieval from the product definition each time.

The attributes will however only be populated under certain conditions as follows.
The changes required are made to EPOSSCore and are driven by new reference data.

The <TM:> attribute will be populated if the Product being transacted represents volume
stock and is made as a sale or adjustment (or not a transfer or remittance). In such
circumstances when the product is sold or adjusted the sale value contributes to the receipts
and payments totals for balancing rather than the value stock total, as was prior to Impact
Release 3. As a result the Tertiary mapping replaces the Primary mapping as the vehicle to
analyse the value of sales of such volume stock products.

The <VolS:> attribute will be populated if the Product being transacted represents volume
stock regardless of the mode the product is being transacted in, and whether or not the Stock
Unit is operating in TP mode (PEAK 117079).

The processing changes to EPOSSCore are defined as follows.

When transacting a product the <VolS:> attribute on the transaction is always taken from the
<VolS:> attribute on the EPOSSProducts Collection Object ([RDMCHLD)]) corresponding to
the product being transacted.

Further when transacting a product if the product is defined as volume stock, and the attribute
<VolSValue:> on the <Collection:ModeParameters> object in 12.0 corresponding to the
mode being undertaken does not have a value <VolSValue:Zero>, then the <TM:> attribute
from the product reference data object is used to populate the <TM:> attribute on the
transaction. The processing required is complicated when the Mode in question is ER
(Existing Reversal).

In a mode of ER the attribute <VolSValue:> will be examined not on the object within
<Collection:ModeParameters> for ER, but on the object within the collection of the original
Mode of the transaction being reversed (PEAK 117784).

The need to check attributes on the ModeParameters Collection is required to ensure the
tertiary mapping is only applied to transactions where the product is sold or adjusted and not
moved, a transfer or remittance. Another way of looking at this is that Tertiary mappings
provide the position of the product in the receipts totals for analysis purposes. If Tertiary
mappings are applied in other modes than sale and adjustment then the receipts and payments
quantities will not reflect the quantities of such products sold as they would contain movement
transaction totals too. In the case of an existing reversal it is equally important to exclude any
reversal of a transaction that is excluded now being reversed, but include reversals of
transactions where the original transaction would be included.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 54 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

There are migration implications of this change. The introduction of the attribute <VolS:> and
the determination of its value will be implemented at migration point 20. However the
introduction of the attribute <I[M:> and the assigning of tertiary mappings to it will only be
implemented when a stock unit has migrated to accounting under Trading Periods rather than
CAPs, in other words at migration point 50.

5.1.4.3. Changes to Stock Movement Transactions

When transactions conducting a stock movement, remittance or transfer, are undertaken
where the product is being handled by volume rather than value then the products will be
transacted in such modes with a zero sale value. As a consequence the stock is 'moved' by
quantity rather than value. Similarly when such products are transacted as an adjustment then
the products will be transacted in such modes with a loss sale value.

The changes required are made to EPOSSCore and are driven by new reference data.

When transacting a product, if the product is defined as volume stock, attribute <VolS:True>
on the EPOSSProduct Collection object corresponding to product being transacted, then the
attribute <VolSValue:> on the ModeParameters Collection object corresponding to the mode
being undertaken, should be taken to direct the sale value according to the following table.

<VolSValue:> Value Transaction Sale Value Notes.

Zero (literal "Zero") Zero (0.00) Minimum sale value _— check
overridden

Sale Product Sale Value as provided by I Sale Value Range Check is not

EPOSSProducts <SV:> if fixed I overridden
price or as entered if variable

Loss Product Loss Value as provided by I Sale Value Range Check is not
EPOSSProducts <Al if present I overridden

otherwise <SV:>, if fixed price or
as entered if variable

For products with MultipleValue
price restrictions, the Retail Price
is substituted with the Adjustment
Price and then a pseudo
MultipleValue price is created
based on the ratio of existing
Multiple value to Retail Value
times the Adjustment Price - after
that point all checks are carried
out as before.

There are migration implications of such a change. The change required must be coordinated
with the office migrating to S80 and conducting accounting in Trading Periods rather than
CAP. In other words it is only applicable to Stock Units after having rolled over from the final
CAP into the first TP. Hence an additional check is required to ensure that the stock unit to
which the user is connected has been migrated to using TPs. This is achieved by examining the
stock unit <Collection:StockUnits> corresponding to the Stock Unit being used, and
examining the attribute <TP:>. If <TP:> is set to 1 then the Stock Unit is operating in Trading
Periods and so the changes can be effective.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 55 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.4.4 Changes to Product Settlement

It has been a long standing cause of concern that Horizon settlement of transactions in modes
other than serve customer is against products provided by POA rather than the Post Office.
Historically these products have been of no interest to the Post Office. The introduction of
Impact Release 3 presents the need to provide POL with details of at least some of these
settlement transactions. As a result the opportunity arises to correct this situation.

As a result of the introduction of Impact release 3 the use of POA Products will be phased out
with their replacement by Post Office defined settlement products.

The Type C Reference Data Collection <Collection:ModeParameters> will be updated for
each object instance where there is a Settlement Product defined, attribute
<SettlementProduct:>. The <SettlementProduct:> attribute value will be replaced by a Post
Office Defined Product specified in the Type A Reference Data Collection
<Collection:EPOSSProducts>.

This change can occur at any time and provided that the new Settlement Product has been
made available as Type A Ref Data before the ModeParameters Object is changed, then that is
all that is required. In particular the counter may still be running on the S75 code set — No
S80 code changes are required.

Additionally the Type A Reference Data Collection <Collection:ProductModes>
[RDMCHLD] will be changed so that a settlement product may be defined for each mode in
which that product is transacted, attribute:<Mode:<S:>>. This replaces the S60 solution
which had such overrides in a separate collection.

Changes are required to EPOSSCore and EPOSSSettlement, to implement changes to
transaction settlement in order to utilise the changed settlement product reference data.

On settling a transaction if there exists a settlement product for the mode which is different
from the default <SettlementProduct:> defined in the reference data collection
<Collection:ModeParameters> then the transaction for the transaction product will be settled
against the defined product.

There is no absolute need to tally such a change with the introduction of trading periods or
managing stock by volume.

The primary mappings associated with the new products must be the same as those for the
existing settlement products, otherwise balancing will be invalidated.
5.1.4.5 Changes to APS

As a result of the changes to transaction attribute structures arising out of the introduction of
volume stock changes are required to APS to ensure transaction attribute content and format
integrity is retained.

APS will be changed to generate transactions by a call to EPOSS Core, rather than creating
the transactions itself. EPOSSCore will set up the transactions ready for committal but will not
write the transactions to the message store.

Following the transactions generated by EPOSS Core post processing will then be undertaken
by APS itself to ensure the complete integrity of APS transactions is attained.

The following post processing is required:
e Digitally sign the transactions as current

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 56 of 135

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

e Split Large transactions, Quantum transactions where a payload of data is carried
which would otherwise cause the transaction to exceed the maximum size for a
Riposte Message

e Adda Help Button Text and Caption, used to provide bespoke text displayed when an
attempt is made to bin or edit an APS transaction on the stack

5.1.4.6 I Merging Volume and non-value stock

The DP promotes the merging of volume stock (that stock which was volume and which is
now managed by volume) with non-value stock.

At this time however there has been no agreement to undertake such a merger and hence no
action is required at this stage.

5.1.5 Introduction of Volume Stock Rollover Data Model

The handling of Stock by Volume and the removal of the Cash Account both require changes
to the recording of Figures at stock unit and office rollover. These figures provide the next
accounting period, whether, BP, CAP or now TP, with the opening position in order that
reports in the next accounting period can report the current stock position and remain in
balance.

The following changes summarise the changes to opening figures production:

e Opening Figures for each stock unit will comprise figures recording stock managed by
volume and figures recording stock managed by value.

e Office rollover figures produced for use exclusively for cash account production will
no longer be produced. Otherwise Office rollover figures remain unchanged.

e Two sets of opening figures for each stock unit will be produced in the final CAP,
before rolling into the first TP, the first set provides the opening position to manage
stock managed by volume as above, but a second set of figures will also be produced
as at present to support production of the final cash account.

5.1.5.1 Stock Unit Rollover Data Model

The stock unit Volume Stock rollover Data Model, as a consequence of the introduction of
Volume Stock is largely unchanged, but for detail. The changes are limited to the introduction
of additional attributes and changes to the population of existing attributes.

The following diagram represents the model.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 57 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Attribute:CAPRolloverrailer (points to)

Message: Trantype:RolloverTrailer

Attribute:FinalCA POpeningF igures (points to)

\ (New Attribute)

Attribute:OpeningFigures (points to)

Message: TranType:OpeningFigures Trailer [Message:Tran Type: OpeningFiguresTrailer
Attribute-OpeningFiguresld denotes all transactions Attribute:OpeningFiguresid denotes all transactions
Message:EPOSSTransaction Message:-EPOSS Transaction

(Transactions posted to ensure

(Transactions with final CA Balances)

Attribute:SaleValue:0 denote
volume stock)

5.1.5.2 Producing Stock Unit Rollover Figures
The changes required to implement the above model will be made to EPOSSStock Unit.

5.1.5.2.1 Steady State Rollover Processing
Steady State rollover processing is required as follows.

On rolling over a stock unit, opening figures will be produced largely as at present. A set of
EPOSSTransactions will be produced, each transaction identified by the same value
attribute:OpeningFiguresID, being the first of the set of records produced.

The set of transactions provides the stock product total position for each item of inventory
stock, whether managed by value or volume. Those transactions with a sale value of zero
denote stock managed by volume.

Transactions written with a sale value of zero are identified in the EPOSSProducts Collection
by <I:True> and <VolS:True>.

The basis of the transactions will have already been produced by a DataServer build of the
transaction hierarchy.

All transactions will be extracted from the node structure defined as Value Stock and MOP,
node 3008. However the accumulator used to populate the transaction will vary depending
whether the product is value or volume stock.

Value Stock Products will have the transactions populated from the accumulators sv and qty.
Volume Stock Products will have the transactions populated from the accumulator qty, but
with salevalue assigned zero. Determination of the product being value or volume stock is
achieved by examining the <VolS:> attribute within the transaction.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 58 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

These changes should only be actioned if the stock unit is rolling to another trading period, or
a BP within a trading period.
5.1.5.2.2. Final CAP Rollover Processing for Stock Unit

In addition to the steady state processing changes a set of rollover figures will also be required
to be produced when rolling the stock unit from the Final CAP into the first TP.

These figures will be produced following the processing rules of the current CAP rollover
process, in other words providing closing stock value figures for each inventory item whether
it is now defined by value or volume.

5.1.5.3 Office Rollover Data

Office Rollover figures recorded in order to produce the cash account (Cash Account
Transactions) or representing the cash account (CashAccLines) will be removed. Their
production entirely relates to production of the cash account.

Cash Account Transactions are identified as transactions (<EPOSSTransaction:> present) with
a <PM:> also present pointing to a <L7:6999> node.

CashAccLines are identified as transactions (<EPOSSTransaction:> present) with a
<CashAccLine:> attribute present.

These figures will be removed only after the last cash account and office rollover have
completed.
5.1.6 Introduction of Trading Period Rollover Script

As a consequence of the introduction of the changes for Impact release 3 there are significant
changes to the User Interfaces on the Counter. These are specified in references [DCRUI],
[RPUI], and specifically [BTSUI]. It will be necessary to refer to these documents in
association with this HLD.

This section defines the changes required to the stock and office balance processes as a direct
consequence of the changes to the UI defined in [BTSUI]

The changes affect the following existing functions:
e Initiation of a Stock Unit Snapshot
© Initiation of Stock Unit Balancing
e Initiation of an Office Snapshot
© Initiation of Office Balancing

The section is divided into the changes which affect Stock Unit Balancing and those that affect
Office Balancing.

All changes described affect EPOSS Stock Unit.
5.1.6.1 Stock Unit Balancing

5.1.6.1.1 Stock Unit Snapshot

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 59 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

A new report will be introduced into Global Objects to support the report layout for balance
reports produced when implementing the requirements of Impact Release 3. The layout is
specified in [RPUI]

A stock unit balance snapshot is initiated from a menu button on the Stock Balancing Menu. A
different menu will be displayed depending whether the stock unit has already rolled to a TP
or is still operating using a CAP. The button definition will be different for cach menu,
identifying a different report identifier depending which version of the report is to be
produced.

Once both the report and the button are defined, there are no changes required to produce the
appropriate snapshot.

5.1.6.1.2 Stock Unit Rollover

The dialogue undertaken to carry out stock unit balancing is changed under Impact Release 3.
Whilst not a significant change, tablets and mnemonics are different and require to be managed
correctly to ensure the correct dialogue is conducted whether a stock unit is carrying out a
rollover within a CAP or a TP.

The rollover process will continue to carry out a number of sanity checks before allowing the
stock unit to roll over. These will continue with some change. If the stock unit is already in a
TP then:

e The check for outstanding transfers remains unchanged
e The check for mandatory reports remains unchanged

e The check for outstanding declarations remains unchanged, however the need to
declare non-value stock will be removed and the function to support the declaration of
non-value stock will be removed

e The check for outstanding discrepancies remains unchanged.

e The check on negative stock will be amended so that all inventory items, value and
volume stock, are checked to ensure there is no negative volume within the stock unit

If this is the last stock unit to be rolled, then:

e All transaction corrections must have been applied (see 5.1.10). The check will be
applied prior to the test for Parcel Traffic

Once the checks have been performed the rollover proceeds as at present.

The Stock Unit Balance Report will be specified in a new report definition. Initiated from the
new stock unit balancing process the report will only be produced if the stock unit is rolling
within a TP.

After producing the trial stock balance report, the option to rollover into a new BP or TP will
result in further checks, before the rollover can be committed. The checks are only applied if
the user chooses to roll forward into a TP:

e If there is a nett discrepancy, whether over or short, then the nett amount is moved to
local suspense. The discrepancy amount is contra'd and a transaction recorded against
the corresponding local suspense product

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 60 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

e If this is the last active stock unit to be rolled then the rollover may only be completed
if there is no nett amount in Local Suspense for the entire branch. If there is a nett
amount in local suspense the user is prompted to clear that amount (see 5.1.12)

5.1.6.2 Office Balancing

The Office Balancing Process remains largely the same, but for the replacement of the Cash
Account by the Branch Trading Statement.

A new Office Balancing Menu is specified which will be visible only if the Branch is balancing
a Trading Period, as opposed to a CAP. In other words all stock units have rolled to a TP.

Whilst the appearance of the menu is different the underlying functions remain largely
unchanged. The following Button changes are evident:

e The button to initiate Office Balancing will be changed to 'Trading Statement’. The
processing initiated will be the same

e The button to denote the Office CAP will be changed to ‘Branch TP’. The processing
initiated will be the same

The Office Snapshot button remains unchanged.

5.1.6.1.1 Office Snapshot

A new report will be introduced into Global Objects to support the report layout for balance
reports produced when implementing the requirements of Impact Release 3. The layout is
specified in [RPUI].

An office balance snapshot is initiated from a menu button on the Office Balancing Menu. The
button definition will be different for depending which office balancing menu is specified,
identifying a different report identifier depending which menu is being specified.

Once both the report and the button are defined, there are no changes required to produce the
appropriate snapshot.

5.1.6.1.2 Branch TP

The processing to determine the current TP remains unchanged, the value being held in the
Office Persistent Object. However the tablet displayed requires change to encapsulate the
office operating Trading Periods rather than CAPs. The code must be changed to check the
status of the office and display the ‘accounting period’ together with the appropriate tablet.

5.1.6.1.3 Office Balancing

The existing sanity checks employed to determine whether office balancing may continue, are
retained. However the displayed tablets in the event of the checks reporting an error or
warning require change to adopt the convention for TPs rather than CAPs.

The existing check for the entry of non-value stock having been made will be removed.

The production of the cash account will no longer be employed if the Office is operating in a
TP. Instead an invocation of BESReports will be made to print the Branch Trading Statement.
Both Trial and Final versions of the report exist replacing directly the trial and final versions of
the Cash Account. Unlike the cash account only a single copy of the final BTS is produced.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 61 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.7 Introduction of Volume Stock Balancing Model

The implementation of Volume Stock, introduction of a local suspense account and the
changes to the processing of declarations and variances for Impact Release 3 requires changes
to the balancing model that underpins stock unit and office balancing.

The balancing model is supported by reference data and in particular the reference data
defining the EPOSS Accounting Node Hierarchy.

This section specifies the changes to the balancing model, implemented as reference data, in
order to ensure the counter balancing process is capable of balancing the stock unit and office.
The changes provide rules and constraints that must be adhered to in order that Stock unit
rollover balancing will have Payments equal to Receipts.

In applying these changes it is imperative, so as to retain a balanced view of transactions, that
only node additions are made, or attribute (accumulator) additions are made. Removal of an
accumulator or removal of a node may cause the balance view to be corrupted.

These are reference data only changes, that impact the delivery of type A and B data and are
hence involve the participation of POL.

5.1.7.1 Tertiary Mapping Nodes

The concept of Tertiary Mapping has already been introduced. Reference Data is required to
support the required Tertiary Mappings.

Each stock product that is defined as being managed by volume will have a Tertiary Mapping
defined. The node hierarchy is required to support all Tertiary Mappings.

Any tertiary mapping is a mapping of a volume stock product into the Receipts or Payments
table and provides the balance report analysis structure for the sale or adjustment of such
products.

In reality there will unlikely be a mapping to the payments table as the sale of stock like a
receipt product constitutes the giving of a product in return for method of payment. Unlike a
payment which is the giving of method of payment in return for product.

The tertiary mapping structure has to define a structure for all those products currently
managed by value, and having primary mappings that report to the value stock table, but will
now also have a tertiary mapping into the Receipts Table.

It is anticipated that the structure will be a clone image of that that exists for primary
mappings. However POL together with RDT may adopt and implement a variation which
satisfies the analysis requirements of transacting volume stock, within the constraints that
follow.

The following diagram represents those elements of the Accounting Node Hierarchy which are
impacted by change. The diagram does not represent the full extent of the hierarchy, only that
impacted by change.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 62 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Root Node
3017
Balance BF Value Stock/MOP Payments Total Receipts
3009 3008 3016 3013
Value Stock MoPs Cash Over Receipts
3007 3003 3001 3006
7 IX
Value & Volume / I \ \
Volume Stock

Stock Prbduct
Node Sbgroups Other Receipts Product Node
/ Subgroups
1 \

JCI 9g

Volume Stock

/ \

Voh Stock
Product Node Volume Stock Product Node Product Node
Groups Subgroups copied as a structure to Groups

E ‘ the Receipts structure, new nodes
being created

The only dependency is that the node structure must map into the level 3 node 3006.

The primary mapping structure for these products must remain intact as it will support the
figures to analyse the stock quantity figures for all volume stock.

5.1.7.2. Applying New Accumulators

The addition of the tertiary mapping nodes supports the mapping of volume stock sales to
receipts.

Section 5.1.3.2.1 introduces the concept of new accumulators. The use of these accumulators
is to allow primary mapping structures to support the accumulation of figures for both value
stock sales and quantities, and volume stock quantities.

Four new accumulators have been identified in section 5.1.3.3.1.
Essentially operating in pairs, they:

e Allow the aggregation of sale value and quantity for transactions into the primary
mapping stock structure, for products that do have a tertiary mapping defined, ie.
volume stock products. They are SVETM and QTYETM.

e Allow the aggregation of sale value and quantity for transactions into the primary
mapping stock structure, for products that do not have a tertiary mapping defined, ie.
value stock products. They are SVNTM and QTYNTM.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 63 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

e Count transactions into the primary mapping stock structure for products that do/do
not have a tertiary mapping defined — i.e. volume/value stock. They are counted into
RCETM/RCNT™M respectively

These new accumulators only apply to a product defined as an Inventory Product, volume or
value stock.

The following changes to defined nodes are required.

All nodes defined in the node structure which support volume stock products, <I:True> and
<VolS:True>, will have the additional accumulator QTYETM defined. There is no need to
also define SVETM as there is no record of the value of volume stock movement, though any
future instances will be supported without software change being needed. The addition of this
accumulator should be defined on all nodes in the structure up to 3007. This allows the net
stock quantity holding as a result of all movements of volume stock to be aggregated. Support
for an aggregate quantity has limited meaning, but is supported to comply with existing
accumulations.

All nodes defined in the node structure which support value stock products, <I:True> and
<VolS:False> will have the additional accumulators defined SVNTM and QTYNTM. This
allows the net stock value and quantity of all value stock movements to be aggregated. It is
necessary to apply these changes so making the use of sv and qty accumulators redundant.
Failure to apply these changes will mean that volume stock value and quantity figures will
corrupt the overall value stock value and quantity figures. Whilst quantity totalling has little
relevance at the highest level, eg. the total quantity of volume stock, it does have relevance on
lower subtotals. Equally whilst some volume stock movement does not have a sale value other
movements do and hence will corrupt the value stock highest level totals.

At this juncture it is possible that such accumulators may be avoided. Ie. SVETM, sv & qty do
not apply. Also, QTYETM & QTYNTM may not be required at the higher levels of
accumulation.

All nodes defined in the node structure which support value stock products, <I:True> and
<VolS:False> will have the additional accumulators defined RCNTM and RCETM. This
allows the number of volume/value stock movements to be counted separately in order that
grouping lines on the balance report can be suppressed or not according to whether
value/volume stock has been transacted.

These changes must be applied before S80 code is activated but otherwise can be applied at
any juncture. At Point 20 S80 code will be run and this will have knowledge of the new
accumulators but as the reports to print them will not change until Point 50, the Point 20 code
will be emulating S75. There is no migration issue on removal of the unused accumulators as
they are not reported on.

5.1.8 Introduction of Stock Balance Reports

There are substantial changes to the format of the Balance Reports produced for each stock
unit and the office as a result of the changes for Impact Release 3. The content of the reports
for stock unit balance snapshot, trial and final, plus the office balance snapshot, trial and final
are very similar, and the changes applicable are equally applied similarly.

The specifications of each report are provided in [RPUI] and [REPREC]. The following
sample is provided to highlight the changes.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 64 of 135
Fujitsu Services

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

New report definitions are required in Global Objects to support these reports. It will not be
possible to amend the existing definitions. Therefore under the new scheme if the stock unit is
operating as a TP then the new report layout will be used, otherwise the old will be used
When moving from CAP to TP the old one will be used (even if the new code is running)

Each report is driven by a dataserver aggregation build described in 5.1.3. Hence in order to
define the changes required to the balance reports it is necessary to understand the structure of
the nodes that support the format of the reports. The following table decomposes the above
report into the constituent 'sections'.

Ref

Report Layout Ace, Notes
1 2 3 4
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012
Feltham Post Office FAD: 123456X
11:42 17/01/1998 B:01 BP:01 SU:SH1 See 5.1.2.7.2
Trial Balance - Office Copy
******Discrepancies in this Account******
*Discrepancy OVER 20.00 * 3111 sv
*Discrepancy SHORT 0.00 * 3112 sv
*
*Nett discrepancy 3110 sv
*
oi 8
972 SY
*Nett Cash Adjustment 970 sv
SII IOSD III IIIS IIIS III III I III AA
VALUE ITEMS s MoP VOLUME VALUE
Cash 118.60 3003 qty/sv
Cash 118.60 ” sv
Cheque 116.00 ” qty/sv
Cheques 116.00 ” sv
MOP 234.60 ” sv
Euros 590.00 3007 I qty/svntm
Fgn Currency Sterling Equ 590.00 “ svntm
BUREAU DE CHANGE 590.00 ” svntm
Postage stmp 10.00 qty/svntm
Other Postage Items 10.00 svntm
POSTAGE 10.00 ” svntm
TOTAL VALUE/ETEMS « Mop 834.60 Note 1
RECEIPTS VOLUME VALUE
Balance B/Fwd 0.00 3009 sv
Colour TV Non AP 2 232.00 I 3006 aty/sv

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 65 of 135
Fujitsu Services

Rollover and Stock Processing

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
44 I Currency Reval Up 1 20.00
45 IB de Change-Revalue Up 20.00
46 I Sale First Class Stmps 10 2.60 I 3006 aty/sv
47 I Sale of Stock 2.60 I 3006 y
48 I Transfers In 0.00 I 3033
49
50
51 Rem In Supp Div 0.00
52 Rem In Other Pos 0.00
53 Rem In Client 0.00
54 Rem In Auto Dist 610.00 I 3028 sv
55 I REMITTANCES IN 610.00 I 3028 sv
56
57 IDiscrepancy SHORT Transferred _ 963 sv
58 I Discrepancy SHORT Resolved 964 sv
59
60 TOTAL RECEIPTS Note 2
6l
62
63 PAYMENTS VOLUME VALUE
64
65 Curr Reval Down 1 30.00
66 IB De Change- Revalue Dn 30.00
67
68 I NatLot Prize 2 20.00 I 3005 aty/sv
69 LOTTERY PAYMENTS 20.00 3005 qty/sv
70 I Transfers Out 0.00 I 3034 sv
71
72 Rem Out Supp Div 0.00
73 Rem Out Other Pos 0.00
74 Rem Out Data Cen 0.00
75 Rem Out Client 0.00
76 Rem Out Auto Dist 0.00 I 3029 sv
77 +'I REMITTANCES OUT 0.00 I 3029 sv
78
79 I Discrepancy OVER Transferred I 0.00 965 sv
80 IDiscrepancy SHORT Transferred == 0.00 966 sv
81 I Total VALUE ITEMS & MOP 834.60 Note 3
82
83 INett discrepancies 20.00- Note 4
84
85
86 TOTAL PAYMENTS 864.60 Note 5
87
88
89 I Balance C/Fwd 834.60 3008 sv
90
91 I stock voLUMES VOLUME
92
93 I Ist Class Stamps 90. 3007 qtyetm
94 I POSTAGE 3007 qtyetm
95
96 EXAMINATION
97 IDrawer examined and cash and stock found
98 Ias shown in this summary
99 Datestamp
100 tea----- +
101ISignature. .. 1...
102

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 66 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112 I Signature... :
113 : :
114
115
116
117
118

Time .

TRANSFER
Cash and stock in this summary have been
transferred to me

Datestamp

*** END OF REPORT ***

1 2 3 4
123456789012345678901234567890123456789012

In the above report, most stock under node 3007 has been converted from value to volume
accounting, so is no longer reported in the “Value Items and MOP’ section. However, some
items are retained as Value Stock. In particular products such as ‘Other Stamps’ under the
‘Other Postage Items’ node 1707. As a result there is a need to conditionally suppress
reporting of the nodes under 3007 according to whether there have been any products
transacted under the node which are still value stock.

The group and subgroup lines in the value stock section are therefore suppressed if the
associated nodes have zero RCNTM accumulator.

In principle, the group and subgroup line in the volume stock section must similarly be
suppressed if the associated nodes have zero RCETM accumulator. However, it has since
been decided (PEAK 117170) that group and subgroup lines should always be suppressed for
the volume stock section.

The following table provides details of those
of nodes identified above by Note references.

report lines that are arrived at by a combination

Note Deseri Node Combination

1 Total of Value Stock and MOPs 3003(sv)+3007(svntm)

2 Total Receipts 3013(sv)+3009(sv)+3028(Sv)+3033(sv)+3011 (Sv)

3 Total Value Stock & MOPs 3003(sv)+3007(svntm)

4 Nett Discrepancies 3110(sv)

5 Total Payments 3016(sv)+3008(svntm)+3029(sv)+3034(Sv)+3015(sv)

A change is required to the reporting component EPOSSReportProcessor to implement the
above changes to combination nodes. The current component does not allow different
accumulators to be applied when calculating the result of a combination node equation. A
change is required to the component to allow this circumstance for Impact Release 3.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 67 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.9 Introduction of Branch Trading Statement

A new report, the Branch Trading Statement is introduced as part of Impact release 3 to
replace the Cash Account.

Production of the cash account will be inhibited and replaced by the branch trading statement,
once the office has rolled into the first trading period, and thereafter. Unlike the Cash Account
the BTS has no electronic interface to POL of the Reports’ contents.

The specifications of the branch trading statement are provided in [BTSUI] and [REPREC],
both documents providing reference information that supports the design solution for
production of the report.

A new report will be developed in BESReports to implement the BTS. The report layout will
be hard coded, i.e. is not driven by Global Objects, however the design solution provides for
the data derivations being mostly soft, i.e. supported by Reference Data definitions.

The report is defined as two potentially multi-page sections. The first section reports the final
Value movements and actions each Stock Unit, Suspense and the branch in the last TP, and is
referred to as the ‘Branch Trading Statement Summary Page’. The second section reports the
final Volume Stock position for the branch at the end of the TP, together with the number of
Transaction Corrections conducted, and is referred to as the 'Branch Trading Statement Stock
Holdings’.

The BTS is an A4 landscape report produced in 'Trial’ and ‘Final’ versions, and is support by
the requirement to preview. A reprint facility is available, specified in Section 5.1.11.

To produce the desired report, the structure of the solution within BESReports requires two
phases, each handling a section of the report. The following paragraphs describe the design
solution for the BTS, supporting the concept of the report in two sections, the following
diagram depicting the schematic representation of the BTS in two sections.

The Summary Page consists of a single Block of data headed by a row of column headings.
The Section Data Set specification is provided in the following sections.

The Stock Holdings Page consists of two Blocks of data, the first headed by a row of column
headings, and the second providing final data to be printed on the report together with report
termination information.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 68 of 135
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Ref:

Version:

Date:

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

EA/HLD/005

2.0
12/09/2005

5.1.9.1 BTS Schematic Layout

BRANCH TRADING STATEMENT

SUMMARY PAGES

Page Headings

Section Block

Section Block Headings

Section Data Set

STOCK HOLDINGS

Page Headings

Section First Data Block

Section Data Block Headings

Section First Data Set

Section Second Data Block

Section Second Data Set

Management of the Report Layout will be entirely under the control of the BESReports Code
Control of page throws and the required page headings will be driven and populated internally,
though parameters will be provided in order to denote 'Trial' and 'Final' versions of the report.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 69 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Ideally it is hoped that all the lines for the summary page can be contained within a single
page, so long as the number of stock units does not exceed four, through optimum use of Font
sizes

The number of pages constituting the Stock Holdings section is dictated by the number of
separate Volume Stock Items transacted through the Trading Period and held at the branch.

5.1.9.2. BTS Summary Pages

The first section of the report provides a summary of Stock Unit, Suspense and Branch Value
movements and actions applicable to the TP being rolled over at the branch.

The Section is formulated, over and above the page headings, in a tabular form as a set of
rows and columns depicted as the Section Block:

e Section Block Headings
¢ Section Data Set
o Row Headings Column
o Branch Totals Column, which equates to the total of all column entries for the
same row
o Suspense Entries Column
o Stock Unit Entries Column, there being one column per stock unit

The number of pages required to populate the section block will depend upon the number of
Stock Units. Should there be more than four stock units then more than one page will be
required. The Section Block Headings will be determined by it being the first or subsequent
page, as branch and suspense detail is not repeated on subsequent pages and hence the Section
Block Headings will change also.

The production of the Section Data Set is implemented as a soft driven solution driven by a set
of parameters, known as the BTS Data Source Parameters in reference data, See Appendix B
<Collection:BTSSourceData>. The parameters are conceived by recognising that the data set
is essentially a set of rows, and each row having a particular definition for the stock unit or
suspense item being reported on. Branch totals themselves are only a sum of all columns on
the row, and are not driven by data. BESReports will arrive at the Branch Totals from the
contributing Stock Unit and Suspense row items.

The parameters also allow the source data, which is complex and derived from a multiplicity
of sources, to be gathered as part of the balancing process, when it is readily available, and
made available to BTS production in an orderly manner.

The following diagram provides a schematic of the section data set data gathering and
presentation process.

The reference data provided in BTS Data Source Parameters provides the key to the solution.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 70 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
IContribu (Of Figures for
Stock Unit [fo Cnty Opting Fg fx
Rollover
TPal EPOSSStock

Unit >} Update SU Persistent Object
BIS Config Params
Determines what figures -——————————_
for BTS are created BTS Data Source Parameters
wing penistent object -——
Stock Unit to link them,
Rollover J [9 I Additional Contributory Figures for BTS in TP
TPn Conboy (Opening) Frese TPL 75 Can Pas

Determines what
Brae ———_———— figures for BTS are
Unit — J} Update SU Persistent Object used

Invokes BES Reports to produce. = >I == ZZ
BIS as part of Ofice Rollover

Office
Rollover ¥ a
TPn Opening Figures Branch Volume

EPOSSStock Stock Position BIS for TP
Unit

hi

[ SU OveningFiwes

(Second section ofthe BTS only)

The data provides a mechanism to instruct various items of data, needed to populate the BTS,
to be written out at the point the stock unit (or office in the case of some suspense items) is
balanced, importantly, in a format that simply provides BESReports, with a series of messages
allowing the report to be produced simply. The following table depicts the schematic of the
data.

Data Item provided reference data Description

Line Identifier The data recognises that the BTS summary page data is a series of
rows, encapsulating data and headings. New lines may need to be
added, or removed. Each line is therefore given an identifier. These
identifiers will form the object names to the reference data
collection. An example would be LineCCC. The considered
alphabetic suffix allows lines to be removed or added without
problems had the lines been numbered consecutively

Row Heading This is the specific text that leads the row. The data recognises
blank lines are needed and allows 'White Space’ as a heading to
depict a blank heading. Without any further instruction
BESReports will produce a blank line if a row heading of white
space is encountered.

Accounting Period (AP) Data sourcing a BTS instance is derived from both the TP being
rolled, and from the previous TP. The AP (Accounting Period)
denotes whether the row data is derived from the current (C) or
previous (C-1) TP

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 71 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
PrintMethod A given row element can have a specific and defined number of

derivations. It can be a total of other elements on the report. It can
be white space, or it can be a data item. PrintMethod defines a
‘Method’ known to BESReports which provides an instruction as to
how to derive the line element. If no PrintMethod is defined then
this denotes a new line which is being introduced but is not yet to
be printed. In other words the data gathering stage has started but
print implementation has yet to commence. There are two defined
methods currently defined, LocalRetrieve and DataRetrieve. Local
Retrieve identifies an instruction to amalgamate the content of
other rows (for the same column) into this element. DataRetrieve
identifies an instruction to go and retrieve the data element from a
series of messages, identified by the Line identifier.

PrintMethod Attributes Attributes used by the PrintMethod. The print attributes specify an
‘equation’ string to allow the content of the other line identifier cells
and/or source values. The Accounting Period element value will
also assist in data gathering.

SourceMethod A given row element can have a specific and defined number of
derivations. Most commonly it is an item of data derived from the
TP rollover position for an SU or Suspense. Such data items are
arrived at from different data sources, For example it may be the
stock in hand value of cash, established from the SU rollover
figures or it could be the total amount of receipts for the TP, less
Remittances and Transfers. SourceMethod defines a ‘Method’
known to EPOSSStockUnit which provides an instruction to derive
the line element at Stock Balancing and store the data item in
readiness for BTS production in a form for easy retrieval. A new
line on the BTS could be introduced as a future change by defining
new lines and a Source method without a print method. The data
will be prepared and stored in readiness for printing on BTS
instances in the future. There are two methods currently defined,
SumAcc, which identifies an instruction to amalgamate the content
of Accumulated Nodes in the Accounting Node Hierarchy, and
SumSusp which identifies an instruction to amalgamate the content
of office suspense

SourceMethod Attributes Attributes used by the SourceMethod. These specify an ‘equation’
string to allow the content of the node and product accumulations
to be calculated. The Accounting Period element value will also
assist in data gathering.

5.1.9.2.1 Stock Unit Rollover

As part of stock unit balancing EPOSS Stock Unit will change to encompass changes to soft
write additional rollover data to be used at the point of BTS production. The changes are
accompanied by enhancements to the Stock unit rollover data model to allow BESReports to
have knowledge of the navigation to the data to be used for the BTS.

Two areas of change are required:

e New rollover trailers are to be introduced which allow EPOSS Stock unit to record
BTS data against. The same rollover trailers become known to BESReports allowing
the data to be retrieved

e A reference data mechanism is introduced which allows, under data control, EPOSS
StockUnit to record data items for printing on the BTS at rollover time. The same
mechanism allows BESReports to retrieve those items for printing

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 72 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

The BTS Summary Page essentially contains information derived from the previous CAP/TP
(Brought Forward Figures into the current TP), and the current TP (movements within the TP
and the Carried Forward Figures to the next TP).

The strategy being adopted for the BTS is to limit the amount of data retrieval navigation
work it has to do and maximise the ability for the figures to be provided to the BTS by the
Rollover process, when the source data is readily available and can be simply amalgamated
into a form for the BTS.

To implement the fact that a BTS Report contains data from the previous TP and the current
TP the basic premise is that the rollover process, both stock unit and office, will record data at
TP rollover, for the BTS of the current TP and the next TP, the latter being its brought
forward figures.

Driving the data to be reported in a soft manner, the 'system' makes no assumption that the
brought forward figures to be reported are the same as the carried forward figures reported
from the previous TP, hence allowing for reconciliation if so desired and avoiding more
knowledge about the report content than is necessary.

For stock unit rollover a system of new rollover trailers support the ability to provide the
storage of data for the BTS. Three new rollover trailers are defined.

Each new Rollover Trailer specifies the Opening Figures Message Identifier that groups the
data messages recorded for later use by the BTS. The rollover trailer itself is defined as by
<TranType:>.

Each new rollover trailer is pointed to from the Stock Unit Rollover Trailer
<TranType:RolloverTrailer>, specifying the Message identifier of the rollover trailer, which in
turn is pointed to by the Stock Unit persistent object, both part of the existing rollover process
model, as described in section 5.1.5.

Responsibility rests with EPOSS StockUnit to manage and maintain the rollover trailers, and
the data messages linked to each trailer. BESReports has the responsibility to use the data in
BTS production. It does not manage or maintain their existence, though it will police any
errors in their presence being missing.

Processing of the rollover trailers is depicted in the following diagram, the mechanism
providing the capability to supply all stock unit related figures on the BTS.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 73 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
BISBFFiguresTrailer
TPe-l, BISCFFiguresTrail
Also final CAP ‘SguesTraller
BISPVFiguresTrailer (Next Week's (TPn) BTS
. — _ Brought Forward Figures
Private Trailer _
Brought Forward —
Trailer
(This Week's (TPn) BTS.
= _ Movement Figures and
Carried Forward Figures
BTSBFFiguresTrailer _
Last Week's . .
BISPVFiguresTrailer Carrfed Forward
Trailer
TPn BISCFFiguresTrailer —
BISPVFiguresTrailer Next Week’ (TPa+1) BTS

— Brought Forward Figures

Privaty Trailer

Note: by not populating Brought Forward Figures from last TP's
Carried Forward Figures reconciliation can be carried out

5.1.9.2.2 Office Rollover

Stock Unit rollover figures are sufficient to provide the data population for all Stock Unit
related figures. Problems occur however in using these figures in aggregated form, to populate
suspense items on the BTS. To resolve this Office level figures are also exposed by EPOSS
Stock Unit to provide data to the BTS, in the form of ## figures.

In so doing consideration is given to the fact that the same figures should be capable of being
used for Suspense Account Reporting also.

The concept of ## figures exists for Cash Account Production, but can also be used to provide
office level data for the BTS. The removal of the cash account means that the ## figures can
also be adapted to suit the BTS as there is no need to support the cash account any longer.

A similar principle of new rollover trailers will be applied to office rollover as is the case for
stock unit rollover. However the navigation mechanism will be slightly different and the trailer
will only support Brought Forward Figures. The new rollover trailers will be identified by the
same naming convention, utilising the BTS Source Data parameter Object.

This allows EPOSS Stock Unit to record office level data items, currently only Suspense
items, so that they can be picked up and printed by BESReports on the BTS.

Hence the following data can be derived using the office rollover figures:
e Brought Forward Suspense Figures
e Carried Forward Suspense Figures

The principle can be used to support the brought forward figures to the first BTS.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 74 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Access to the rollover trailers is achieved by the following scheme.

Collection: EPOSSCap Message:TranType:OpeningFiguresTrailer

Attribute:RolloverTrailer (points to)

Attribute:OpeningFigiurestd denotes all 4# Figures

Message: Trantype:RolloverTrailer

Message:EPOSSTransaction, Suspense:$$

Next Week's (IPn+1) BTS Suspense
Brought Forward Figures

BTSBFFigures Trailer =
Last Week's

BISPVFiguresTrailer Brought Forward
Trailer

5.1.9.2.3 Soft Data Control

The new rollover trailers provide the structure around which EPOSS StockUnit and
BESReports will communicate the data to be provided for, and reported on the BTS.

EPSOSS StockUnit will use the reference data collection BTS Source Data as the driver to
the data written. As part of the balancing process, and with the Data Server tree built for the
current TP rollover, EPOSS StockUnit will scan each object instance of the table. For each
entry with a defined SourceMethod, the source method will be executed. All SourceMethods
assume the Data Server tree has been built and is available.

The execution of a source message results in a Data Message being written to the message
store recording the BTS Line identifier, the value to be printed and the rollover trailer message
identifier with which all like messages are to be linked, based on <AP:>.

The BTS Source Data attribute <AP:> is provided within the BTS Source Data to link the
data EPOSS Stock Unit processes to the appropriate rollover trailer. In processing (rolling
over) TPn any BTS Source Data object denoting the current AP ('C’) will have data linked to
the BTSCFFiguresTrailer (Carried Forward Trailer). Any object denoting the current-1 AP ('C-
1') is instructing EPOSSStockUnit to prepare figures for the next TP and hence data will be
linked to the BTSPVFiguresTrailer (Private Trailer).

In the case of a report line object being specified as <AP:C> BESReports will be pointed to
the BTSCFFiguresTrailer, and in the case of <AP:C-1>, will be pointed to the
BTSBFFiguresTrailer.

As part of the generic stock unit rollover process the BTSBFFigureTrailer will be assigned the
BTSPVFiguresTrailer identifier of the previous week's Private Trailer.

The BTS Source Data reference data collection <Collection:BTSSourceData> provides the
objects that EPOSSStockUnit has to populate data for. In order to ensure BESReports and
EPOSS StockUnit have a common interface to the data via the rollover trailers, the rollover
trailer identifiers themselves are specified in reference data, through the
<ObjectName:Parameters> instance of the collection.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 75 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

The same object instance also provides BESReports with a set of PrintControl parameter
specifications that can be varied.

All data specifications are provided in Appendix B.

5.1.9.2.4 BTS Summary Pages Derivation

The Summary Pages consist of a sequence of sections. The content of each of these is defined
by a set of summary line definitions in <BTSSourceData>:-

.

.

Brought Forward Figures (LineB*)

Receipts (LineC*)

Payments (LineD*)

Carried Forward Figures (LineE*)

Trading Position (LineF*)

Local Suspense (LineG*)

Make Good and Remove Excess Cash Events (LineH*)

Branch Adjustments (Linel*)

The following tables indicate the data item derivations for those summary lines. The line/field
names and layout are as described in [BTSUI]

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 76 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

BTS Section B - Brought Forward Figures

Cash on Hand B I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Fwd Total

LineBB Stock Unit Value derived from Opening Figures Node 1001 (Cash) plus 3110
(Discrepancies). Should match the corresponding Cash on Hand
C Fwd (LineEE) in previous Branch Trading Statement.
N.B. Discrepancies is normally zero (because any discrepancy
must be transferred to Local Suspense before producing the Final
Balance), but for the special case of the first TP, there may be a
nett discrepancy carried over from the final CAP. In that case the
Cash on Hand B Fwd figure will not agree with the balance
report for the final CAP, but including the discrepancy here allows
the overall Trading Position to remain zero as required by PEAK
118648 (See Section F).

Cash Awaiting Branch Same as suspense column

Collection B Fwd I Total

LineBBB Suspense Value derived from Non Inventory Opening Figures Products
5610 and 6509. Should match the corresponding Cash Awaiting
Collection C Fwd (LineEEE) in previous Branch Trading
Statement.

Suspense B Fwd Branch Same as suspense column

LincBBBB Total

Suspense Value derived from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Nodes

740, 490 minus Products 5610, 6509. Should match the
corresponding Suspense C Fwd (LineEEEE) in previous Branch
Trading Statement.

Other MOP B Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Fwd Total

LineBBBBB Stock Unit Value derived from Opening Figures Node 3003 (MOP) minus
Node 1001 (Cash). Should match the corresponding Other MOP
C Fwd (LineEEEEE) in the previous Branch Trading Statement.

ForEx B Fwd Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

LineBBBBBB I [°!

Stock Unit Value derived from Opening Figures Node 2016 (Bureau de

Change). Should match the corresponding ForEx C Fwd
(LineEEEEEE) in the previous Branch Trading Statement.

Other Postage B- I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Fwd Total

LineBBBBBBB I Stock Unit Value derived from Opening Figures Node 3007 (Value Stock)

B minus Node 2016 (Bureau de Change). Should match the

corresponding Other Postage C Fwd (LineEEEEEEEE) in the
previous Branch Trading Statement.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 77 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
BTS Section C - Receipts
LineC Blank Line
Remittance In Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Total Total
LineCC Stock Unit Total cash, cheques, stamps, foreign exchange and other Value Stock
remitted in during the Trading Period. Corresponds to the
REMITTANCES IN total on the SU Final Balance report. Value
derived from Non-inventory Figures accumulation of Node 3028
Cash Rems from I Branch Same as suspense column
SUs Total
LineCCC Suspense The sum of cash transferred into pouches pending dispatch from the
branch during the Trading Period. Corresponds to the CASH REMS
MOVED TO SUSPENSE total on the Suspense report. Value derived
from Non Inventory movements of Product 5610. (Same as sum of
LineDDDDB for all SUs).
Gains to/from Branch Total of individual values in suspense and stock unit columns
Suspense Total
LineCCCC Suspense Total of all losses transferred from stock units to suspense during the

period. Value derived from the sum of all the Stock Unit column entries
for Losses to/from Suspense (LineDDDD)

Stock Unit

Total nett value of gains transferred into suspense from the stock unit
during the period. Corresponds to the GAINS TO/FROM SUSPENSE
total on the SU Final Balance report. Value derived from Non
Inventory movements within the TP under Node 490

LineCCCCCC

Cash Pouches Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns.

Despatched Total

LineCCCCB Stock Unit The sum of cash in pouches despatched from the branch via the Stock
Unit during the period. Value derived from Non Inventory movements
of Product 6509

Transfers In from I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

other SUs Total

LineCCCCC Stock Unit Transfers of cash, cheques, stamps, foreign currency and other Value
Stock from other stock units. Corresponds to Transfers In Total on the
SU Final Balance report. Value derived from Non-inventory Figures
accumulation of node 3010

Other Receipts Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Total

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 78 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Stock Unit _ I Total value of goods and services (including banking deposits) which
have been sold during the Trading Period regardless of MOP used.
Reversals are included with the appropriate sign, and stock adjustments
are included (at loss value). Corresponds to TOTAL RECEIPTS on the
SU Final Balance report less the total of the following stock unit fields
on the Branch Trading Statement:

Remittances In Total (LineCC)

Gains to/from Suspense (LineCCCC)
Transfers in from other SUs (LineCCCCC)
Total B/Fwd (Section B)

Value derived from Non-inventory Figures accumulation of nodes 3013
(Total Receipts), 963 (Gains to Local Suspense) and 966 (Clear Loss
from Local Suspense), minus 490 (Gains to/from Suspense)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 79 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
BTS Section D — Payments
LineD Blank Line
Remittances Out Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns.
Total Total
LineDD Stock Unit Total cash, cheques, stamps, foreign exchange and other Value Stock
remitted out during the Trading Period. Corresponds to
REMITTANCES OUT total on the SU Final Balance report. Value
derived from Non-inventory Figures accumulation of node 3029
Cash Despatched I Branch Same as suspense column
via SUs Total
LineDDD Suspense The sum of cash collected from the branch over the period. Corresponds
to the total of Despatched Cash in Pouches during the Trading Period
on the Office Weekly Cash in Pouches Report. Value derived from Non
Inventory movements across all SUs within the TP of Product 6509.
(Same as sum of LineCCCCB for all SUs).
Losses to/from Branch Total of individual values in suspense and stock unit columns
Suspense Total
LineDDDD Suspense Total of all gains transferred from stock units to suspense during period.
Calculated as the sum of all SU column entries for Gains to/from
Suspense (LineCCCC)
Stock Unit Total nett value of losses transferred to suspense from the stock unit.
Similar to LOSSES TO/FROM SUSPENSE total on the SU Final
Balance report but excludes Cash in Pouches movements. Value
derived from Non Inventory movements for the SU within the TP under
Node 740 minus Product 5610, 6509 movements
Cash Rems to Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Suspense Total
LineDDDDB Stock Unit I The sum of cash transferred into pouches from the SU during the
Trading Period pending dispatch from the branch. Value derived from
Non Inventory movements of Product 5610.
Transfers Out to I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
other SUs Total
LineDDDDD Stock Unit I Transfers of cash, cheques, stamps, foreign currency and other Value
Stock to other stock units. Corresponds to Transfers Out total on the
SU Final Balance report. Value derived from Non-inventory Figures
accumulation of node 3014
Other Payments Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Total

LineDDDDDD

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 80 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Stock Unit Total Value of payments made to customers and also the value of Cash
Withdrawals and the use of Debit cards and Savings stamps as Methods
of payment. Corresponds to TOTAL PAYMENTS total on the SU
Final Balance report less the total of the following stock unit fields on
the Branch Trading Statement:

Remittances Out Total (LineDD)
Losses to/from Suspense (LineDDDD)

Transfers Out to other stock units (LineDDDDD)
Total C/Fwd (Section E)

Value derived from Non-inventory Figures accumulation of nodes 3016
(Total Payments), 964 (Clear Gain from Local Suspense) and 965 (Loss
to Local Suspense), minus 740 (Losses to/from Suspense)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 81 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

BTS Section E - Carried Forward Figures

LineE Blank Line
Cash on Hand C I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Fwd Total
LincEE Stock Unit Value of Cash held within the stock unit. Corresponds to CASH
total on the SU Final Balance report. Value derived from Opening
Figures Node 1001 accumulation
Cash Awaiting Branch Same as suspense column
Collection C Fwd I Total
LinecEEE Suspense Corresponds to C/Fwd for Cash in Pouches total on the
Suspense report. Calculated as Sum(LineBBB+LineCCC) minus
LineDDD.
Suspense C Fwd Branch Same as suspense column
LincEEEE Total
Suspense Cumulative C Fwd suspense amount for all items in suspense at
the end of the period. Calculated as Sum(LineBBBB+LineCCCC)
minus LineDDDD
Other MOP C Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Fwd Total
LineEEEEE Stock Unit Value of Other methods of payment held within the stock unit.
Corresponds to the MOP less CASH fields on the SU Final
Balance report. Value derived from Opening Figures Node 3003
accumulation less Node 1001
ForEx CFwd Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
LineEEEEEE I 10!
Stock Unit Value of ForEx held within the stock unit. Corresponds to FRGN
CURRENCY EQUIV total on the SU Final Balance report. Value
derived from Opening Figures Node 2016 accumulation
Other Postage C I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns
Fwd Total
LincEEEEEEEE I Stock Unit I Value of Other Postage held within the stock unit. Also includes
other Stock held by Value. Corresponds to TOTAL VALUE
ITEMS & MOP total on the SU Final Balance report less the total
of the following stock unit fields on the Branch Trading Statement:
Cash C Fwd (LineEE)
Other MOP C Fwd (LineEEEEE)
ForEx C Fwd (LineEEEEEE)
Value derived from Opening Figures Node 3007 accumulation
less Node 2016
Total C Fwd Branch Total of individual values in suspense and stock unit columns
LineEEEEEEEE I 1°!
E Suspense Total of suspense column values in this section — i.e.
Sum(LineEEE, LineEEEE)
Stock Unit Total of stock unit column values in this section — i.e.

Sum(LineEE, LineEEEEE, LineEEEEEE and LineEEEEEEEE)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 82 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,
Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 83 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

BTS Section F — Trading Position

LineF Blank Line

Trading Position I Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

(+/-) Total

LineFF Stock Unit Total of (Brought Forward Figures + Receipts) — (Payments + Carried

Forward Figures) — i.e. sum of Sections B and C lines on the Branch
Trading Statement minus sum of Sections D and E.

This should always be zero.

BTS Section G — Local Suspense

LineG Blank Line

Discrepancy Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

OVER Total

Transfe

ransferred Stock Unit Again posted to Local Suspense when stock unit rolls over into

LineGG new Trading Period. Corresponds to Discrepancy OVER
Transferred from the SU Final Balance report. Value derived
from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node 963

Discrepancy Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

SHORT Total

Transferred Stock Unit A loss posted to Local Suspense when stock unit rolls over into

LineGGG new Trading Period. Corresponds to Discrepancy SHORT
Transferred from the SU Final Balance report. Value derived
from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node 965

Discrepancy Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

OVER Resolved Total

LineGGGG Stock Unit Again cleared from Local Suspense when last stock unit rolls
over into new Trading Period. Corresponds to Discrepancy
OVER Resolved from the SU Final Balance report. Value derived
from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node 964

Discrepancy Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

SHORT Resolved I Total

LineGGGGG Stock Unit A loss cleared from Local Suspense when last stock unit rolls

over into new Trading Period. Corresponds to Discrepancy
SHORT Resolved from the SU Final Balance report. Value
derived from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node 966

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 84 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

BTS Section H — Make Good and Remove Excess Cash Events

LineH Blank Line

Excess Cash Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Removed Total

LincHH Stock Unit Sum of all Remove Excess Cash ‘events’ during the period.
Corresponds to Excess Cash Removed from the SU Final Balance
report. Value derived from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node
971

Cash Shortage Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

Made Good Total

LineHHH Stock Unit Sum of all Make Good ‘events’ during the period. Corresponds to Cash

Shortage Made Good from the SU Final Balance report. Value derived
from Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node 972

BTS Section I —- Branch Adjustments

Linel Blank Line

Total Branch Branch Total of individual values in stock unit columns

adjustments Total

Linell Stock Unit Sum(LineGGGG,LineHH) minus Sum(LineGGGGG,LineHHH)

5.1.9.3. BTS Stock Holdings

The second part of the report provides the net volume stock holding figures and a summary of
the completed transaction corrections for the period. The layout is described in [BTSUI].

The section is formulated, over and above the page headings, as two Data Blocks:
e Stock Holding Data Block Headings
e Stock Holding Data Set

¢ Section Footer Data Block

o Transaction Correction Summary

o Report Declaration and Footer

The number of pages required to populate the first data block will depend upon the number of
Stock Unit Volume Stock Holdings. The data block headings will be the same regardless of

the number of pages required.

The production of the stock holding figures, unlike the contents of the BTS Summary Page, is
driven internally by BESReports. The stock holding figures are determined from the
aggregation of all volume stock holding figures across all stock units rolled to the next TP.
Only non-zero holdings for each volume stock item are reported. These are found from
retrieving the Opening Figures detail for each stock unit.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 85 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Date: 12/09/2005

The contents of the Section Footer Block is made up of Transaction Correction Data and a
report footer.

The production of Transaction Correction Data is achieved by extending the scope of the
reference data BTSSourceData to allow line definitions reported on the stock holdings page.

Following printing of transaction correction summary a report declaration and footer are
printed. The report declaration is textually driven by reference data items within
BTSSourceData.

BTS Section X - Stock Volume Details

Description Stock product description, left justified, derived from the product Medium Name

Volume Total volume of stock held across all stock units, right justified. Calculated by
adding up all the volumes of stock reported on the individual final stock unit
balance reports. Each line item is derived from the sum of all like product Stock

Unit Opening Figures, written at the last TP rollover.

BTS Section Y — Transaction Corrections
LineY
LineYY

New page if line number > 33
Blank line

Number of Transaction
Corrections

LineYYY

Single line showing total number of transaction corrections applied during the
Trading Period. See 5.1.10.2 and [DCRHLD]. Vaiue derived from the
‘count’ accumulator (RC) in the Non Inventory Opening Figures for Node
980

BTS Section Z — Declaration and Signature

LineZ Blank line

LineZZ Blank line

Declaration Text stating “I certify that the content of this balancing and trading statement is

. an accurate reflection of the cash and stock on hand at this branch.”

LineZZZ

LineZZZZ Blank line

LineZZZZZ Blank line

LineZZZZZZ Blank line

Space for Signature

LineZZZZZZZ

Text saying “Signature:

End of Report marker

“* END OF REPORT ***” (centred)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 86 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.10 Adoption of Variance Handling from Discrepancies

This section defines changes impacting balancing as a result of changed requirements for the
handling of variances, discrepancies and corrections defined in [DCRHLD].

Changes are required to support two specific functions, the writing of local transactions as a
result of events to make good and Reclaim Cash, and Transaction Corrections.

The changes required are reflected in reference data alone.

5.1.10.1 Variance adjustment Events

As a result of an action to make good or reclaim cash following a declaration which generates
a discrepancy the user may make an adjustment, recorded as an event to make good or reclaim
the cash. Such an action is recorded as an event and not as an external transaction harvested to
POL. Such events do however appear on the stock unit and office balance.

In order for the balance reporting mechanism to operate correctly the event must be recorded
as a transaction of some description,

As a result such events will additionally be recorded as a 'Local' transaction. Such transactions
will not be harvested but will contribute to the EPOSS Balancing mechanism. These
transactions will have a TranType of 'L' but will have a primary mapping allowing them to be
aggregated into the EPOSS Accounting Node Hierarchy and represented on the balance
reports. As such Products will be generated which have primary mappings mapping into the
Stock section of the accounting hierarchy.

5.1.10.2 Transaction Corrections
The number of transaction corrections that have been actioned is recorded on the BTS.

Transaction Corrections are undertaken in specific modes. In order for the number of
transaction corrections to be determined, the secondary mappings associated with these modes
must amalgamate into the accounting node hierarchy in order that the corrections contributing
to them can be summed.

(Note that to avoid double counting, the secondary mapping is only applied to the transaction
correction message, and not to its corresponding settlement message (if any). See [DCRHLD]
for more details).

Thereafter the standard mechanism employed by balancing and BTS production can be used to
aggregate the transactions

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 87 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Ref: EA/HLD/005
Version: 2.0
Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.11

Introduction of Extended Reprints

The implementation of four or five weekly trading periods requires changes to Report
Reprints. The extended accounting period and conflict with message retention periods means
that a different approach to the architecture is necessary and a different requirement for
reprints to be available is adopted. Additionally new report requirements themselves means
that the number of reports available for reprinting will change.

The following table denotes each report whether existing or new as part of Impact Release 3
that needs to have reprint capability attention, and denotes the attention to be given.

Report Name

Reprint Requirement

Stock Unit Balance Report

An existing report reprint capability exists which is to be
continued

Cash Account Report

The Cash Account is being removed therefore the need for
the reprint capability is also to be removed. However there
remains a requirement to reprint the very last Cash Account
Report even after the office has rolled into the first Trading
Period

Branch Trading Statement

The Branch Trading Statement is a new report as part of
Impact Release 3. A report reprint capability is to be
introduced allowing for the reprint of the last Branch
Trading Statement

Office Weekly Counter Revenue Schedule

The Counter Revenue Schedule is being removed and
therefore the reprint capability is also to be removed

Office Weekly Inland Revenue Tax Credits
P5589

‘An existing report reprint capability exists which is to be
continued

Office Weekly P&A P2311MA.

‘An existing report reprint capability exists which is to be
continued

Office Weekly Redeemed Savings Stamps
Summary

An existing report reprint capability exists which is to be
continued

Variances Report

The Variances Report is a new report introduced as part of
Impact Release 3 but subsequently withdrawn via CP3980.

See [DCRHLD] for details

Two specific techniques will be adopted to ensure the reprint capabilities required for Impact
Release 3 are implemented successfully and any migration implications are resolved.

e Change weekly report reprint selection to be implemented by Date Range as opposed
to CAP for any report that is not aligned to the accounting period but rather to a week.
Namely the Weekly reports above, and also including the Variances Report.

e Implement a BLOB technology based solution for any report reprint where the report
is aligned to a specific accounting period. Namely the Stock Unit Balance and Branch

Trading Statement.

The changes involved in the above techniques and required to implement report reprints as
part of Impact Release 3 are now described.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 88 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.11.1 Report Reprints by Date Range

All Report Reprints that require a weekly report to be reprinted will adopt the approach of
selecting the report instance to be reprinted by date range. The report reprints impacted are
therefore:

e Counters Revenue Schedule

e Inland Revenue Tax Credits P5589
e P&A P2311MA

e Redeemed Savings Stamps Summary

Changes are to be made to the selection criteria for the above reports so that instead of
presenting a CAP selection button, a Date Range selection is presented. The available scope
for reprinting weekly reports shall be limited to the 5 previously produced reports, ie. 5 weeks.

The Date Range supplied will be used to determine the report to be reprinted and the existing
mechanism of markers used to reproduce the report. Note that the start/end dates presented
on the selection picklist are based on when the original reports were produced and cutoff
(which may or may not be weekly).

5.1.11.2 BLOB Reprints

The Stock Unit Balance Report and the new Branch Trading Statement will adopt a different
approach to reprinting from now on. Rather than retrieving the raw data and regenerating the
report with identifying reprint information the original report will be saved/stored in its
originally printed form and reprinted from there.

At the time the source report is produced the software will produce a 'copy' of the report in a
persistent object (BLOB) in the collection ‘Reprints’. The object will be keyed on the report.
Riposte will automatically perform data compression of the target report if the report size is
greater than 1024 bytes.

The stated requirement is merely to produce the last produced stock unit balance and Branch
Trading Statement, hence there is only a need for one object instance for any one report
However the changes required to the existing functionality simply allow for reprints to be
provided for all Balance Periods rolled over in the last accounting period. Hence stock balance
reprints will be available for the last accounting period, all balance periods in that period and
all balance periods in the current accounting period.

For branch trading statement reports, the reprint object is called ‘BTSCAP<nn>’. For stock
unit balance reports, the reprint object is called ‘SUBalance<su>-CAP<mn>-BP<m>’ where
<su> is the stock unit name, </> is the CAP/TP number, and <m> is the BP number.

In principle old reprint objects can be pruned, since they are not required beyond the following
TP. However, since retaining old reprint objects may be useful for diagnostic purposes, and
the amount of space consumed is not large per report and the names are recycled each year,
no pruning is currently proposed.

Upon selecting a reprint of the report the persistent object will form the source to the report
reprint. The EPOSS component BESReports will entirely handle the print of report reprints
whilst it is the source components' of for the reports that handle generation of the reprint data.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 89 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Whilst the BLOB contains the report in a form that can casily be reprinted, without substantial
knowledge of the original report format, two considerations have to be given. Firstly whilst
Riposte performs compression to data stored in BLOBs there may be a need to provide further
compression. Secondly reprinted reports for the most part also indicate the reprint by offering
a ‘Reprint’ banner and date and times adjusted to the point at which the reprint is printed. As a
result the Blob mechanism will offer parameter elements to enable the reprint to be so
annotated.

The following diagram portrays the solution.

SU Balance Report

EPOSS
Stock Unit

BTS
[ Stock Unit Balance Report BLOB representation
Branch Trading Statement BLOB representation
BES
Reports

SU Balance Report

Reprint

BTS
Reprint

5.1.11.3 Reprinting the Last CAP SU Balance and Cash Account

In addition to making available the appropriate changes to reprint the Stock Unit Balance and
Branch Trading Statement the service must also take account of the ability to be able to
produce the last Stock Unit Balance Report in the old format, once the Stock Unit has rolled
into the first TP, and to be able to re-produce the last Cash Account, once the office has rolled
into the first TP.

Tied in with this requirement is the need to ensure the Button Icons represent what will be
reprinted. The following table defines the potential scope.

[SU Status I Office Status I Report Available for Reprint I Button Icon I

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 90 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
CAP CAP Existing functionality Existing functionality
First TP Last CAP SU Balance of last CAP + BPs in I SU Balance
current TP
Existing functionality CA Reprint
First TP SU Balance of last CAP + BPs in I SU Balance

current TP
Cash Account of last CAP only CA Reprint

Subsequent I First TP SU Balance of previous TP + SU Balance
TP BPs in current TP

Cash Account of last CAP only I CA Reprint

Subsequent SU Balance of previous TP + SU Balance
TP BPs in current TP

BTS of previous TP only BTS Reprint

The migration requirements must take account of these circumstances.

5.1.12 Changes to Suspense Account

The operation of the suspense Account is changing as a result of the introduction of Impact.
Release 3.

The concept of a Local Suspense Account is introduced. Further the so called ## figures for
the office which enable the office suspense position to be determined, can no longer be
maintained, as determination of suspense account items is based upon products that have a
cash account mapping to Tables 2, 2a and 3 in the cash account.

Additionally suspense items contribute to the new Branch Trading Statement and hence
mechanisms will be required to support the output to the BTS.

Two sets of changes are required to the operation of Suspense:

e A new set of ## figures will be produced to support the rollover of the office into
which the aggregated stock unit suspense movements will be maintained. The ##
figures can then be used to support production of the BTS and Suspense Account
Reports.

© The concept of a local suspense account will be introduced. Discrepancies outstanding
at each Stock Unit Rollover will be moved to the local suspense account, and the net
amount in local suspense when the last stock unit is rolled remains, prohibiting its
rollover, until it is acted on.

5.1.12.1 Introduction of new Hash Hash Figures

The main function of the existing ## figures is in support of cash account production
Additionally they are used to provide the brought forward figures to the suspense account
report. In this capacity the identification of suspense products is made by reference to their
cash account mappings. However the removal of the cash account means that suspense
products can no longer be identified from their cash account mappings. A new mechanism is

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 91 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

required. Additionally the suspense figures, both brought forward, and movements within a
trading period contribute to the BTS. A mechanism is required to support this.

The concepts of Stock Unit suspense trailer and office (##) suspense figures will be introduced
at stock unit and office rollovers respectively.

The stock unit suspense trailer will record the movements of suspense items within the
Trading Period. At office rollover the movements for all stock units will be aggregated into
the ## suspense figures. Suspense Movements are identified by a Primary Mapping node of
either 490 or 740.

The following scheme will apply.

Stock Unit
Rollover
TPal EPOSSStock
Unit SU opening Figures Suspense
Trailer
Update SU Persistent Object
Office
Rollover
TPa-l
EPOSSStock
Unit
y
Update Ofice Persistent Object
Curent TP Suspense Movements
Office
Weekly
Reporting
TPn BESReports

A new set of Stock Unit Rollover Figures will be created, grouped as the Suspense Trailer.
The figures record suspense movements for the stock unit for the trading period. The Office
Rollover takes each set of these figures and amalgamates them into new ## records at the
Office Rollover for the TP, bringing forward the office ## records from the previous period.

The ## figures provide the Suspense Account Report in the next TP with its opening
movements. Production of the Suspense Account Report is completed by taking the suspense

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 92 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

account movements for the current TP also into account. There is no change to the latter
processing.

Additionally suspense movements must be available to support the BTS. Figures are required
in support of the BTS. The items required for the BTS can be supported from the Suspense
Trailer records and the Office ## Figures.

The Suspense Brought Forward Figures are provided for the BTS in TPn from the Office ##
figures in TPn-1.

The Suspense movement figures for the BTS in TPn are provided as an aggregate of all the
suspense trailer figures from the SU Rollover for TPn.

The Suspense Movement figures for the BTS in TPn are a simple sum of the brought forward
figures for suspense, and the TP movements of suspense, within the same report.

In order to implement suspense on the BTS two new attributes to the BTS Source Data
parameters are needed. The first is an Office attribute. It denotes that the line contains an
office only figure and hence is derived from a message held against the office rollover
persistent object. This is explained in more detail in section 5.1.9.

5.1.12.2 Introduce Local Suspense

A local suspense account is introduced as part of Impact Release 3. As part of the stock unit
rollover process into a new TP any amount of discrepancy will be moved to local suspense.
On the last stock unit rollover if there is any net discrepancy left then the user will be required
to clear it before the rollover can be completed..

The movement of discrepancies to local suspense will be made as a contra transaction to the
discrepancy in the stock unit and a balancing transaction in housekeeping mode to a local
suspense product.

On the final stock unit all transactions posted with either local suspense products will be
retrieved for all stock unit rollovers into the next TP and the sum local suspense total
determined.

If the sum total is zero then the final stock unit can continue to rollover. If however the total is
non-zero, then local suspense must be cleared before rollover can continue.
5.1.12.2.1 Clearing Local Suspense

Local Suspense can be cleared through transactions undertaken on the housekeeping menu or
through the dialogue presented at the point of stock unit rollover.

The mechanism is described in EA/IFS/013.

5.1.12.3 Suspense Account Reports

The existing single Suspense Account Report is to change. Firstly the report group detail for
Cash In Pouches is to be summarised and the detail lines moved to a new suspense report that
handles Cash In Pouches alone. Secondly a new group is to be added to the Suspense Account
Report to report on Local Suspense Movements within the Trading Period. Thirdly, any group
with zero brought forward figures or movements will be suppressed.

As part of Impact, POL are withdrawing the use of a number of suspense products, but
existing positions for these are valid, so remain in the report until cleared. However, there are

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 93 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

a couple of new suspense product pairs (Emergency Txn Payments and Receipts), and these
will be added to the Suspense report as a new section at the end.

The changes to split the suspense report are directly at the instruction of CP 3787. The report
layouts are provided in [REPREC].

The above changes will all be introduced at Point 20 in the migration path (although the new
suspense products will not be transacted until point 50).

All changes affect the counter component BESReports.

The current structure of the suspense report is provided by the reference data collection
<Collection:SuspenseGroups>, which corresponds with the cash account mapping structure of
each suspense item. Each group on the suspense report corresponds to a line on the cash
account for suspense items, and an object in the Suspense Groups collection. The order of the
objects in the collection reflects the cash account mappings and the order required on the
suspense report.

The change of order and introduction of new suspense groups that will not have
corresponding cash account mappings requires a new structure to support the suspense
account.

A new collection <Collection:SuspenseSections> is introduced, see Section 12.9, that will
support the structure of both the Suspense Report and the new Cash In Pouches Awaiting
Collection Report. Rather than providing the definition of each group by its corresponding
cash account mapping, the collection defines an object by an arbitrary value that put together
represent the order of the reports’ groups or sections. The collection replaces the use of the
collection <Collection:SuspenseGroups>, which will no longer be used after point 20.

The collection provides the vehicle to identify each section on the reports and provide the
mapping to the source transactions that provide the data for each section. The objects within
the collection have arbitrary identifiers but together the sequence of the objects provides the
sequence of the sections (groups) on the reports. Each object identifies the section heading
together with, by product identification, the products for which transactions present will
populate each group. A group will only be printed if there are transactions posted.

Both reports provide for each section the net brought forward movement value, the period
movements individually or summarised, and the net carried forward value. The removal of the
cash account as part of Impact means that carried brought forward figures can no longer be
sourced from the previous period's cash account data held in the message store. However the
possibility of suspense data being provided from a migrated office immediately in advance of
migration point 20 means that the reports must take account of migrated data, which actually
is stored in a format akin to cash account data.

The reports will only consider brought forward suspense data from migration when no
following accounting period rollover has taken place. In steady state brought forward figures
will be determined from the last rollover's ## figures.

The following diagram depicts this:

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 94 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Office Rollov.

Figures

MiMan Suspense Figures Brought Froward under steady state

Brought Froward if no rollovers

a

BESReports
TT (Suspense Report,
A ting Period Si st
Movements Cash In Pouches)

/

Cash In

Pouches
Report

Suspense
Account
Report

5.1.12.4 Cash In Pouches

The introduction of the Branch Trading Statement as part of Impact Release 3 requires
movements of Cash In Pouches to be reported. This presents some problems with the current
implementation of Cash In Pouches. The problems are caused by the fact that there is only one
product, 5610, that represents movements, both of cash into pouches and awaiting collection,
and the collection of pouches from the branch. However the BTS is required to report
movement separately depending whether it is movement into the pouch or collection from the
branch.

As a result the implementation of cash in pouches is to change so that a separate product is
used depending upon the movement.

The change will come into effect at Migration Point 20 of Impact Release 3 but the
dependency upon reference data will mean that data changes will be made ahead of that point.

A new product 6509 will be introduced in reference data that reflects the movement of cash in
pouches, being collected from the branch. The existing product 5610 will continue to be used
for movements of cash into pouches and awaiting collection. The new product will be assigned
the cash account mappings of product 5610, hence the movements as currently reported to the
cash account will be as at present. The new product will have the reverse accounting sense to
product 5610. The new product will be introduced before migration point 20 but will be
benign.

A change is required to LFS to change the Remittance-Out (Despatch Pouches) code to then
enforce use of this new product rather than product 5610. Essentially when an RODP
transaction is performed LFS must determine the RODP product number to use rather than
transacting product 5610 with a negative sign of the source ROSP transaction. The new
product will already have the reverse sense to product 5610 and hence there is no need to
reverse the sign. This is achieved by accessing <Collection:CounterConfigParams>,
<ObjectName:Counter> attribute <CashInPouchesProduct:>, which identifies the product
number.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 95 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005
Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

The changes to the code will be implemented as part of Point 20 migration, hence all reference
data changes before that point will be benign. However, additionally, if the code fails to find
the <CashInPouchesProduct:> attribute, or the contra product identified by the attribute, then
the code will act is without any change to Cash In Pouches processing.

In the event of a ROSP transaction being reversed by a RISP transaction then product 5610

will continue to be used.

The following table summaries the transaction movement scheme.

Transaction Mode Product Before I Product After
Change Change

Cash Awaiting Collection ROSP. 5610 5610

Cash Awaiting Collection, reversed RISP. 5610 5610

Despatch Pouches RODP 5610 6509

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 96 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.1.13 Adoption of Cut Off Reports for Trading Periods

As a result of the changes replacing the Cash Account Period by a Trading Period a number of
reports will be changed to become date range based rather than accounting period based. This
tends to apply to weekly reports where the use of the CAP was a fortunate vehicle to which to
align the report. Extending the accounting period to 4 or 5 weeks requires that these reports
are still produced weekly. However, they will still be cut off by a Trading Period rollover.
5.1.14 Amendment/Removal of Generic Reports

Changes to reports and receipts over and above the specific report changes to the Suspense
Account, introduction of the BTS, changes to the balance reports and changes to Giro
Reports are documented in EA/IFS/011.

No specification of the further report changes is provided here.

5.1.1.1 Giro Reports

A specific change to the content layout of Giro Reports will be implemented as part of Impact
Release 3, as a result of CP 3842 and CP 3888. A change is required to Giro Reports, the
production of reports their alignment to a CAP, and necessarily provides a week number
relationship. With the removal of accounting on a weekly basis there is still a need to produce
giro reports aligned to some week number rather than being aligned to a Trading Period.

As a result the printing of the Cash Account Week Number on Giro Reports will replaced by
an arbitrary defined week number.

The change affects those giro reports that are defined as client reports and are produced daily.
The specific reports impacted are therefore:

e G9901MA Daily Record of Giro Deposits

* G9902MA Daily Record of Giro Withdrawals

e P5589 Inland Revenue Tax Credits (and reprint option)
e¢ Counter Weekly Inland Revenue Tax Credits

e =P2311MA P&A Summary (and reprint option)

e P2311MA (B) Batch Control Voucher

¢ Counter Weekly Green/Violet Giros

e Counter Weekly P&A

© Office Weekly P&A

Instead of printing the Cash Account Period Number these reports will now print a calculated
week number. The week number will be assigned based upon the date the report is produced,
aligned to a calendar starting at the beginning of the POL financial year. Prior to Point 50,
this is in effect the current CAP week

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 97 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

5.2 Interface

The user interfaces are defined within references [RPUI], [DCRUI] and [BTSUI]. An
Appendix will be provided that defines the format of the messages relayed to the agent and
other systems where changed. [RDMCHLD] and Appendix B — Affected Reference Data
Collections define the reference data that drives the application.

5.3 Distributed Application Services

There are no changes to Distributed Application Services as a result of the requirements
impacting this design.

5.4 Information Management

Standard facilities will be used.

5.5 Networking Services
These will be provided by standard Riposte messaging.

5.6 Platforms

This document only addresses the counter platform.

5.6.1 Live Counters

Impact Release 3 will be supported on live counters.

5.6.2 Training Mode

Impact Release 3 will not be supported in training mode, a change resulting from CP 3842.
Access to Training Mode will be removed, by removal of the desktop button.

5.6.3 Training Counters

Impact Release 3 will be supported on training counters.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 98 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

6.0 Systems Management

The system is primarily controlled through reference data.

6.1 Reference Data

The implementation of Impact Release 3 uses reference data to replace the cash account
calendar by one for Trading Periods. The concept of Tertiary Mappings is introduced,
implemented as Product Reference Data. Configuration parameters are also added as
reference data to control Report Legends and Expiry Periods.

6.2 Receipts and Reports

These are controlled through the normal Global Objects mechanism.

6.3 Screens and Dialogue Flows

For screens and dialogues, see references [RPUI], [DCRUI] and [BTSUI].

The UI is implemented according to the standards defined in [STYLE].

The Menu structure supporting users' access to functions is provided in [MENU], [MENU2].

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 99 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

7.0 Application Development

The development will follow a joint working exercise with design to incrementally build the
changes concurrently with design progress using a controlled RAD approach.

Each significant development will have a low-level design.

During development, source will be held in VSS. VB6 or later versions will be used as
appropriate. PVCS will be used for delivery, as normal.

All source code will be documented.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 100 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

8.0 System Qualities

The primary aim of the solution adopted for Impact Release 3 Balancing and handling stock by
volume is to ensure the risks associated applying the required changes are mitigated as far as
possible. Additionally the following System Qualities are considered.

8.1 Availability

The counter system is available during the prescribed post office opening hours. No changes
to system availability are perceived as a result of Impact Release 3.

8.2. Usability

The system has been designed for use by users already familiar with the Horizon system.
Changes to the Balancing process as a result of the introduction of Trading periods necessitate
changes to branch processes. However a more significant impact on processes is attributable
to the introduction of handling stock by volume rather than value. There will be significant
process changes, however the look and feel will remain the same.

8.3. Supportability

No changes to system supportability are perceived as a result of Impact Release 3.

However additional events will be reported to the event log, as per coding standards, to
enhance available diagnostic information.
8.4 Security

No changes to system security are perceived as a result of Impact Release 3.

8.5 Potential for Change

The changes required for Impact Release 3 are invasive to the existing EPOSS product. The
potential for change is therefore limited. However by applying an incremental approach to the
design any future change should be more easily manageable.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 101 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

9.0 Solution Implementation Strategy

9.1 Migration

Migration of PO outlets to the new handling of Stock by Volume and Branch Trading Periods
is documented through the Migration High Level Design in [MIGHLD]. This document
provides a more detailed view of the Migration Design elements that apply to the changes for
Balancing, Rollover and Stock Handling by Volume.

Point 10 Point 20 Point 25 Point 30 Point 40 Point 45 Point 50

‘Switch}to new New MS on t

Pol Fs. OPTip fed off

Phase A inepce Phase B Phase C
CH

Final PBDB
ash Account

Horizon Data
(Centre Migration Samd Time
Im ALL branches

TO POL FS

Figure 12 - Migration Timeline

First of all, S80 counter code, and reference data to support it must be delivered to the
counters. These may occur in parallel over a period prior to point 30 and must be independent
— i.e. S80 code must emulate pre-S80 functionality whether or not the reference data has
arrived, and pre-S80 code must not be affected by the S80 reference data.

The migration impacts of each function change are documented in the following sections.

9.1.1 Extended Retention Periods

Changes associated with the Extending Retention Periods must be activated before an outlet
rolls a Stock Unit into the first Trading Period. Failure to do so will allow a stock unit to
perform transactions in the first trading period which could expire before they are needed to
be taken into account in a rollover to the next accounting period.

These changes are to be implemented as soon as the S80 Software is installed (migration Point
20) and no Soft Launch control will be associated with this functionality.
9.1.2 Introduction of Trading Period Rollovers

Migration from operating in CAP mode to operating in TP mode requires a number of changes
to be made at Points 20 and 50 in the migration timeline (see Figure 12).

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 102 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

(Note that various other counter changes need to be made at Point 30, but those are not in the
scope of this particular section).

The ‘Point 50’ changes will be initiated by rollover during the day from a designated branch-
specific ‘Final CAP’ to a calculated ‘First TP’, so do not simply happen overnight as a result
of new reference data. Nevertheless, reference data has a major role to play, since it defines

e the particular ‘Final CAP’ value for the branch

«the replacement TP-mode menus and legends to be used once the current Stock Unit,
or the Office as a whole, has rolled into the ‘First TP’.

e the original CAP-mode menus and legends to be reinstated if the user attaches to a
different Stock Unit that has not yet rolled into the ‘First TP”

The designated ‘final CAP’ values are made available via SoftLaunch definitions (see
[SOFTLAUNCH]) that depend on corresponding branch-specific trigger products.

For more details, see [MIGHLD]

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 103 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

10.0 Costs, Risks and Timescales

Costs are dealt with in the plans.
Timescales are documented in the plans.

Consideration to the design from the outset has identified two areas of attention requiring
analysis for risk:

e Technical Risks
© Management Risks

Every effort has been made in the production of this high level design to mitigate against the
unnecessary overheads that could be caused by these risks inconsideration of the design.

10.1. Technical Risks

Two major Technical Risks have been identified in consideration to the design.

Firstly the migration implications of the design proposed in [DP] and defined by the high level
design here are significant. For example it has already been identified that a new process for
the migration of new outlets onto the Branch Trading Period regime will be required.

Secondly the changes to the counter applications, and in particular EPOSS, are invasive. The
EPOSS Application does not lend itself easily to invasive change. Its component elements are
few in number but a single element may have multiple uses in the functioning counter, hence a
change can have an impact in areas that are not required for change in a business sense. There
is hence a very real risk of regression in any change made to EPOSS under the changes
required for Impact Release 3.

No other technical risks have been identified so far.

10.2 Management Risks

The following programme management risks have been identified in consideration of the
design.

1. The timescales for delivery of S80 are recognised to be tight and if at all possible it is
required that development should commence before the design (which in itself is
substantive) is brought to final approval.

2. The high level design is one of two complementary HLDs for changes to the Counter in
response to Impact Release 3. Ideally the two documents hence should be levelled to the
same degree and as stated, complement each other. This may not be as easy as perceived
given the different resources and timescales for delivery.

3. The high level design approach to deliver design definitions which may be developed
independently of each other can lead to potential nugatory development if the changes are
not considered. For example the change to follow the use of Trading Periods, whilst
retaining the cash account involves a degree of nugatory work as later the cash account
would be removed anyway. It is considered a subject of planning as to how the nugatory
work is kept to a minimum.

4. The layout of the new Balance Report and Branch Trading Statement may need revision as
a result of customer feedback, potentially involving significant rework.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 104 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

11.0 Appendix A — Design Proposal Cross Reference
Matrix

The following compliance matrix resolves each reference provided in [DP] to ensure all
Counter requirements are covered by each of the Counter HLDs and to resolve the functional
unit responsible for providing the balancing functionality.

Design Sub- Responsible Functional Unit Notes
Proposal Reference HLD
Reference
2.5.11
2.5.1.1.1 2.5.1.1.1.1 This Extension of Transaction
Document Retention (5.1.1)
2.5.1.1.1.2 This Extension of Transaction
Document Retention (5.1.1)
2.5.1.1.13 This Extension of Transaction
Document Retention (5.1.1)
2.5.1.1.1.4 [DCRHLD] I Protection against Loss
and this I of Data(5.1.1.4)
document
2.5.1.1.2 2.5.1.1.2.1 This Amendment of
Document

Transaction _ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)

2.5.1.1.2.2 This Amendment of
Document Transaction —_ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)

2.5.1.1.2.3 [DCRHLD]

25.11.24 This Amendment of
Document Transaction —_ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)

2.5.1.1.3 2.5.1.1.3.1 This Amendment of

Document Transaction Attributes

for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.13.2 This Amendment of
Document Transaction Attributes

for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.1.3.3 This Amendment of
Document Transaction Attributes

for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
25.1134 This Amendment of
Document Transaction —_ Attributes

for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.1.3.5 This Amendment of

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 105 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,
Rollover and Stock Processing

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Document Transaction —_ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.1.4 2.5.1.1.4.1 This Changes to Suspense
Document Account (5.1.12)
2.5.1.1.5 This Amendment of
Document Transaction —_ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.1.6 This Amendment of
Document Transaction —_ Attributes
for Volume Stock (5.1.4)
2.5.1.1.7 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.2
2.5.1.2.1 2.5.1.2.1.1 [DCRHLD]
25.1212 I [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.2.1.3 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.2.2 2.5.1.2.2.1 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.2.3 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.24 [DCRHLD]
25.125 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.3
2.5.1.3.1 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.3.2 This Introduction of Stock
Document Balance Reports (5.1.8)
2.5.1.3.3 This Changes to Suspense
Document Account (5.1.12)
25.134 This Adoption of Cut Off
Document Reports for Trading
Periods (5.1.13)
25.135 [DCRHLD]
2.5.13.6 This Amendment/Removal of
Document Generic Reports (5.1.14)
25.137 25.13.71 This Amendment/Removal _ of I Except Balance
Document ‘ Reports undertaken
Generic Reports (5.1.14) with 2.5.13.2
2.5.1.3.7.2 This Amendment/Removal of
Document Generic Reports (5.1.14)
2.5.1.3.7.3 This Amendment/Removal of
Document Generic Reports (5.1.14)
2.5.1.3.8 This

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 106 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Document Introduction of Extended
Reprints (5.1.11)
2.5.1.3.9 This Amendment/Removal of
Document Generic Reports (5.1.14)
2.5.1.3.10 This Amendment/Removal of
Document Generic Reports (5.1.14)
2.5.1.3.11 This Giro Reports (5.1.14.1)
Document
2.5.1.4 Introduction of Trading
Period Rollovers (5.1.2)
Introduction of
Aggregation Engine for
Volume Stock (5.1.3)
Introduction of Volume
Stock Rollover Data
Model (5.1.5)
2.5.1.4.1 2.5.1.4.1.1 This Introduction of Trading
Document Period Rollover Script
(5.1.6)
25.14.12 This Adoption of Variance
Document Handling from
Discrepancies (5.1.10)
2.5.1.4.1.3 This Introduction of Stock
Document Balance Reports (5.1.8)
25.14.14 This Introduction of Volume
Document Stock Balancing Model
(5.1.7)
2.5.1.4.2 This Introduction of Branch
Document Trading Statement (5.1.9)
2.5.1.4.3 This Introduction of Branch
Document Trading Statement (5.1.9)
2.5.1.4.4 This Management of Steady-
Document State TP Rollover (5.1.2.5)
2.5.1.5.1 [DCRHLD]
25.152 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.5.3 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.5.4 [DCRHLD]
25.155 [DCRHLD]
2.5.1.5.6 [DCRHLD]

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 107 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

2.5.1.6

2.5.1.6.1 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.6.2 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.6.3 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.6.4 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.7

2.5.1.7.1 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.7.2 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.73 [DCRHLD]

2.5.1.8 This MiMAN Migration (5.1.2.8)
Document

2.5.1.9 This Training Mode (5.6.2)
Document

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 108 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005
Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

12.0 Appendix B — Affected Reference Data Collections

This appendix provides a reference to the affected reference data collections as a result of
changes to Balancing, Rollover and Handling Stock by Volume at S80. Each collection is
address by a separate sub section.

12.1 AccountingPeriods Collection
This is a new collection, defined in [RDMCHLD], and an example is reproduced here for

convenience

<Collection:_AccountingPeriods>
<ObjectName:2004_00>
<StartDate:01-Jan-2004 00:00:01>

<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:

<FinYear:

<SD:23/03/2004 12:12:
<ED:21/03/2005 23:59:59>

<AP:
<i:
<SD:23/03/2004 12:12:34>
<ED:20/04/2004 23:59:59>
>
<2:
<SD:21/04/2004 12:12:34>
<ED:18/05/2004 23:59:59>
>

Etc to include all APs for the Financial Year

12.2 OutletDetails

The OutletDetails object within the ‘Outlet’ collection Outlet is amended to include a new
attribute ‘BTSOffset’ that indicates the branch trading statement offset. The syntax is defined

in [RDMCHLD], and an example reproduced here for convenience

<Collection:_Outlet>
<ObjectName:OutletDetails_03>
<StartDate:25-JAN-2001 10:01:46>

<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:

<FadCode:1764209>
<Add1:6 High Street>
<Add2:Bromborough>
<Add3:>
<Add4:Wirral>
<Add5:Merseyside>
<Postcode:CH62 7HA>
<CATypeCode:2>

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 109 of 135
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

<LanguageCode:1>
<ContractTypeCode:SPSOCA>

<PWTel:
<PWTelOutOfHours:>
<RegionCode:853>
<PlantCode:R782>
<BTSOffset:0>

v

12.3 CounterConfigParams Collection

A new collection of CounterConfigParams is introduced as TypeC Reference Data. It will
define counter application configuration parameters, introduced at specific releases.

Example:

<Collection:CounterConfigParams>
<ObjectName:Counter>
<StartDate:01-JAN-2004 00:00:00>
<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:
<TxnExpiry:42>
<MinAppExpiry:20>
<RollExpiry:38>
<CAPLegend:CAP>
<TPLegend:TP>
<CashInPouchesProduct:6509>
>
>

The following attributes are currently specified.

Field Name Description Format I Comments
Collection String I CounterConfigParams
ObjectName Default Object for Counter, but specific String Counter

objects as required by individual counter
applications if and when required; eg APS.
The Counter object provides system.
(counter application) wide variable values
which may only be overwritten by
Application specific values

StartDate Effective Start Date

EndDate Effective End Date

RData

Data

TxnExpiry Message Expiry Value Numeric I Currently assigned a
value of 42
See Extension of
Transaction Retention
(5.1.1)

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 110 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

MinAppExpiry Message Expiry Value Numeric I Currently assigned a
value of 20
See Extension of
Transaction Retention
(5.1.1)
RollExpiry Message Expiry Value Numeric I Currently assigned a
value of 38.
See Extension of
Transaction Retention
(5.1.1)
CAPLegend Report and Dialogue Accounting Period String CAP
Legend to use prior to the introduction of
Branch Trading Periods
TPLegend Report and Dialogue Accounting Period String TP

Legend to use after to the introduction of
Branch Trading Periods

CashInPouchesProduct

Identifies the Identifier that denotes the
product nominated to be assigned in
transactions for the removal of cash
pouches from the branch

Numeric

12.4 EPOSSNodes Collection

The existing collection EPOSSNodes is impacted. New Node instances will be defined to
support the Tertiary Mapping structure for reporting the sale of stock managed by volume.
New accumulators will require to be added to the Primary Mapping node structures affected
by those same products so that volume stock quantities can be separately managed from those

of value stock.

Example:

<Collection:_EPOSSNodes>

<ObjectName:10_07>

<StartDate:01-JAN-1996 00:00:31>

<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:
<NID:10>
<NN:OTHER BANKS CHEQUES>
<L:2>
<C:13>
<C:15>
<A:
<N:10>
<AN:LTSV>
<Att:_LTSV>
<Pos:True>
<F:Sum>
<Con:0>
>
<A:
<N:10>

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 111 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
<AN:Qty>
<Att:Qty>
<Pos:True>
<F:Sum>
<Con:0>
>
<A:
<N:10>
<AN:RC>
<At:RC>
<Pos:True>
<F:Count>
<Con:0>
>
<A:
<N:10>
<AN:SV>
<Att:SV>
<Pos:True>
<F:Sum>
<Con:0>
>
>
The following attributes are currently specified.
Field Name Description Format I Comments
Collection String EPOSSNodes
ObjectName Numeric Identifier identifying object node I Numeric
StartDate Effective Start Date
EndDate Effective End Date
RData
Data
NID Node ID: Node Identifier. As well as being I Numeric
the object name
NN Descriptive name for this Node. This is the I String
text that is displayed on a report. It should
not be > 30 characters otherwise it may be
truncated at the end
L Node Level: Level in the hierarchy at Numeric
which this Node sits. (1; 2: 3; 4: 5)
Cc Optional Repeating Attribute, Child Node I Numeric
number: If this node has any children,
these are listed using repeated occurrences
of this attribute. If this node has no
children then the attribute is not used. The
Child Nodes must be present in ascending
numeric sequence
A Repeating group describing all
accumulators associated with this node.
N The Node number is listed again when Numeric

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 112 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

defining accumulates

AN Accumulator Name: Defines what is to be String
accumulated; e.g. Record Count (RC), Sale
Value (SV), Quantity (Qty)

SV, QTY, RC,
SVETM, QTYETM,
RCETM, SVNTM,
QTYNTM, RCNTM,
LTSV

Att Attribute: Attribute this accumulator works I String
on. Defines the attribute that is searched
for within MessageStore (usually RC; SV:
Qty; LTSV; SI)

Pos Positive Effect: Indicates if this String
accumulator totals in a positive or negative
way. Used when a negative number (¢.g.
refund) is to be displayed as a positive
number; if false is specified, the absolute
value will be used

True or False

F Function: Indicates how totals are derived I String
using this accumulator. Defines whether
the accumulated value should be summed.
or counted; e.g. the sale value (SV) should
be summed to give total value of all
transactions, the record count (RC) should
be counted to give total number of
transactions

Sum, Count, SumETM,
SumNTM, CountETM,
CountNTM

Con ContextID Numeric

Usage Unknown

12.5 EPOSSDNodes Collection

The existing collection EPOSSDNodes is impacted. New accumulators will require to be
added to the dynamic node specifications used by those Aggregations and Reports which

require to accumulate Volume Stock separately.

Example:

<Collection:_EPOSSDNodes>

<ObjectName:5001_02>

<StartDate:01-JAN-1996 00:00:11>

<EndDate:>

<RData:

<Data:

<DN¢Price Grouping>
<GB:EPOSSTransaction.SaleValue>

<GI-Every>
<GSS:Forward>
<GST:Number>
<GID:5001>
<C>
<A:
<N:5001>
<AN:Qty>
<Att:EPOSSTransaction.Qty>
<Pos:True>
<F:Sum>

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 113 of 135

Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005
Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

<Con:0>

<A:

<N:5001>

<AN:RC>
<Att:EPOSSTransaction.Qty>
<Pos:True>

<F:Count>

<Con:0>

<A:

<N:5001>

<AN:SV>
<Att:EPOSSTransaction.SaleValue>
<Pos:True>

<F:Sum>

<Con:0>

>
>

The following attributes are currently specified.

Field Name

Description

Format

Comments

Collection

String

EPOSSDNodes

ObjectName

Numeric Identifier identifying object node

Numeric

StartDate

Effective Start Date

EndDate

Effective End Date

RData

Data

DN

Dynamic Name: Descriptive text name
for this Node

Numeric

GB

Group By: Identifies the fully qualified
attribute this dynamic node will create
groupings on (e.g.:
EPOSSTransaction.SaleValue)

String

GI

Group Interval: ‘Every’ indicates all items
are grouped, a number indicates the items
grouped before a page break occurs, used
for pre-printed stationary reports such as
giros. Repeating attribute describing all
accumulators associated with this
Node. In fact, no repeating version of
this exist. The only values it takes are:
Every, 16 or 23.

Numeric

GSS

Direction of sorting (Forward)

OB

Optional. Order By. This attribute is used
when the ordering of a report is different
from the Grouping, as specified by the GB
attribute. If omitted, ordering is done by
the attribute specified in the attribute GB.
An example of this attribute is used in
EPOSSDNode 5049s

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 114 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
GST Data type (Date: Number; String)
GID GroupID: this is also the ObjectName.
Cc Optional Repeating Attribute, Child Node I Numeric
number: If this node has any children,
these are listed using repeated occurrences
of this attribute. If this node has no
children then the attribute is not used.
A Repeating group describing all
accumulators associated with this node.
N The Node number is listed again when Numeric
defining accumulates
AN Accumulator Name: Defines what is to be String SV, QTY, RC,
accumulated: e.g. Record Count (RC), Sale SVETM, QTYETM,
Value (SV), Quantity (Qty) SVNTM, QTYNTM,
LTSV
Att Attribute: Identifies the fully qualified String EPOSSTransaction.Sale
attribute this accumulator works on. Value,
Defines the attribute that is searched for EPOSSTransaction.Qty

within MessageStore (usually
EPOSSTransaction.SaleValue or
EPOSSTransaction.Qty)

Alternative suffixes to
EPOSSTransaction are
RC, SI, LTSV,
SVETM, QTYETM,
SVNTM, QTYNTM

Pos Positive Effect: Indicates if this String True or False
accumulator totals in a positive or negative
way. Used when a negative number (e.g.
refund) is to be displayed as a positive
number; if false is specified, the absolute
value will be used

F Function: Indicates how totals are derived I String Sum, Count, SumETM,
using this accumulator. Defines whether SumNTM

the accumulated value should be summed.
or counted: e.g. the sale value (SV) should
be summed to give total value of all
transactions, the record count (RC) should
be counted to give total number of
transactions

Con ContextID Numeric I Usage Unknown

12.6 MessageDefs Collection

This collection holds definitions for cach screen prompt — i.c. the narrative question, and any
associated answer buttons and icons. See [RDREQ] for details. The following collection
members are affected by CAP-TP transition. It should be noted that some of these messages
are closely related to the actual production of the Cash Account. Since those may not be
required when the branch is operating in TP mode for real, there seems little point in providing
TP variants of them. However, it may be simpler to mindlessly provide TP variants of all of
them then discard some later, rather than risk missing important cases.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 115 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

In cach case 2 new message variants will be provided with revised text and then the code will
need to decide which one to use (dependent on CAP / TP mode). Following counter upgrade
to S80 across the estate all of the existing messages can be removed.

Id Ref Caption Text
40 I NSG_SUDELETEHASBEENUSED Could Not I Could not delete stock unit %StockUnit% as it has been used in the current
Delete Cash Account Period.

38 I MSG_ROLLINTONERTCAP Roll Over Do you wish to roll over into the next Cash Account Period (YaNextCAP%)
or into the next Balance Period in this CAP (%ThisCAP%/%NextBP%)?

39 I MSG ROLLOVEROK Rollover OK Stock unit %StockUnit% has been successfully rolled over to Cash Account
Period %CAP% Balance Period %BP%.

60 I MSG_CONFIRMOFFICEROLLOVER Confirm WARNING - Check that all Office Accounting activities have taken place.

Rollover Confirming will commence rolling over of the office into the next CAP.
63 I MSG_ROLLCONFIRM Confirm Please confirm that you wish to rollover into the next BP (%NextBP%) in
Rollover CAP (%ThisCAP%).JYou cannot roll into the next CAP (%NextCAP%)
until the Cash Account is completed for the previous week

66 _ I 3SG_OFFICEROLLEDOVEROK Rollover OK Office Rollover to CAP %CAP% %Year% completed successfully.

77 I SSG_REVERSALNOTCAP Reversal Not I The transaction you attempted to reverse was not in the current Cash

Allowed Account Period. Only transactions in the current Cash Account Period are
allowed.

91 I MSG_CREATEATCASHACCOUNT Cannot Create I The balance option has been invoked. You cannot create stock units until
the Cash Account is complete and the office has been rolled over to the next
Cash Account Period.

136 _ I NSG_ROLLNOOFFICEBALANCE Cannot Roll I You have not yet produced a Cash Account report. The Cash Account

Over report must be produced before the Office can be rolled over.

137 I NSG-CASHACCOUNTNOOFFICEBALA” "Cannot Produce I You cannot produce a Cash Account until the Office Balance Report has
been confirmed.

139 _ I NSG_ROLLAHEADOFOFFICE Cannot Roll I Stock unit %StockUnit% is already in the next CAP (%NextCAP%). A

Over stock unit cannot roll more than one CAP ahead of the office CAP
(%CurrentCAP%).

189 I NSG_OFFICECAP Office CAP The Office is currently in Cash Account Period %OMiceCAP%>

193 I MSG _INWRONGCAPLATE CAP Passed “Waming® The expected end date for the CAP that SU %SU% is currently
working in (%CAP%) has passed. Please double check you are in the
correct CAP before starting work.>

194 _ I NSGINWRONGCAPEARLY CAP Early “Warning” The expected start date for the CAP that SU %SU% is currently
working in (%CAP%) is in the future. Please double check you are in the
correct CAP before starting work.

196 _ I NSG_CASHACCNOSNAPSHOT No Snapshot You cannot produce the Cash Account Report until you have printed or
previewed the Cash Account Snapshot.

199 I MSG_ACWRONGCAP Tavalid Date This button is not available as today’s date is not valid for the CAP. This
stock unit is currently in Cash Account Period (°%CAP%)

200 I SSGROLLEARLY Warming *Waming* The end date for CAP %CAP% is not today - please double
check that you wish to roll over into the next CAP.

214 I NSG_NEXTCAPGETDETAILSFAILED I Error Could not retrieve details for the next CAP. Current CAP is %CAP%.

215 _ I MSG_INWRONGCAPUNKNOWN CAP Unknown I “Warning” The expected starvend date for the CAP that SU %SU% is
currently working in (%CAP%) could not be determined. Please double
check you are in the correct CAP before starting work.

30 I MSG_SUDELETENOTOFFICECAP Could Not I Could not delete stock unit %StockUnit% as it is not in the current Office
Delete CaP.
236 _ I NSG_MANDATORY SUSPENSE Mandatory ‘You cannot produce a Cash Account until the Suspense Account Report has
Report been produced.

241_ I MSG_DENYCAPEXT NODATA Cannot Extend I You cannot extend the rollover because there is no data present to support
this request.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 116 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

257 _ I NSG_CASHACCOUNTERROR System Error ‘An internal system error has occurred. Please re-run the Cash Account
process,

261 I MSG_MANDATORY_SUSPENSE_0T Mandatory ‘You eannot produce a Cash Account until the Suspense Account Report has

Report been produced,

266 I MSG_CONF_EXTENDEDCAPYEAR I CAP Extended I CAP Rollover has been successfully extended from CAP %CurrentCAP%
to CAP %ExtendedCAP%.

272 I MSG_REVERSALTXNFORMATERROR” I Transaction Not I The ID entered could not be found. Please check that the transaction ID is

Found for the current CAP and that the format is correct.

300 _ I MSG_NOOFFICEBATANCE Cannot Continue I You have not yet confirmed the office balance. You must do this before you
can produce the Cash Account.

335 I MSG_DOESNOTBALANCE Balancing Error I Receipts and Payments do not match, please investigate. The error may be
able to be corrected using Reversal Functions. “WARNING: Continuing
may lead to an unbalanced Cash Account”

342_ I MSG_REVERSALTXNNOTERIST Transaction Not I The requested transaction was not found in the current CAP and cannot

Found therefore be reversed.>
345 I MSG_BESFB_INVALID_NEWDATE. Invalid Recovery I The date you have entered is invalid within the current CAP Please touch
Date the OK button to re-enter the date

371 I MSG_EXTENDED 20R3_CAPPERIOD I Extended Period I Please select how many weeks you wish to extend the next rollover CAP

372 I MSG EXTENDED TORS CAPPERIOD” I Extended Period I Please select how many weeks you wish to extend the next rollover CAP

373 I NSGEXTENDED TOR? CAPPERIOD I Extended Period I Please select how many weeks you wish to extend the next rollover CAP

374 I NSG_DENYEXTENDEDCAP YEARI Cannot Extend I You cannot extend the rollover because the requested week is in a different
cash accounting year.

375 I 3SG_DENY EXTENDEDCAP SU Cannot Extend I You cannot extend the rollover because one or more of the Stock Units are
in a different CAP to that of the Office CAP

4AL_ I NSG_APS_REVERSAINOTCAP Reversal Not I The transaction you attempted to reverse was not in the current Cash

Allowed Account Period. Only transactions in the current CAP ean be reversed.

526 I MSG_CONFIRMPRINTSOK Confirm Printing I Touch Confirm to complete the office rollover. Touch Reprint to reprint the
Cash Account.

527 _ I MSG_RETRYORPREVIEW Cash Account

Report
528 I MSG _PREVIEWFINISHED Confirm Preview I Ensure all details of the Cash Account have been noted
331 I \SGBESFRINVALID FALLBACK D” I Tnvalid PCH I This help desk encashment cannot be recovered because the date in the
ATE Date corresponding PCHL transaction is invalid within the current CAP./Touch
the OK button to continue.

337 I SSG_PCDF_INVALID CAP Tnvalid CAP Unable to report on the requested CAP. This may be because the CAP is an
Extended CAP or is not a valid Office CAP.

538 I MSG_PCDF_CAPT00_O1D Invalid CAP Unable to report on the requested CAP because itis too old>

620 _I NSG_NEWSTOCKUNTDISCONNECTE I Disconnected “Warming.” Not all counters are connected. Creating a stock unit and

NEIGHBOURS counters performing transactions in it may lead to a receipts/payments imbalance if
other counters are in higher office CAPs. Do you wish to continue?

621 _ I MSG_WARN EXT_CAP DISCONNECT I Disconnected “WARNING* There are currently one or more counters

Counters disconnected.IContinuing may prevent you from producing your Cash
Account.IDo you wish to continue?
730 _ I 3SG_MANDATORY MAIS TABELS I "Mandatory ‘You cannot produce a Cash Account until the Postage Labels Report has
Report been produced.

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

12.7 ModeParameters Collection

The existing collection Modeparameters is impacted. New Mode instances will be defined to
support the introduction of Corrections, and new attributes will be introduced to support the
specification of Mode specific pricing. The latter change specifically applies to the need to

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 117 of 135
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref:

Rollover and Stock Processing

EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

transact volume stock products at different prices depending upon the mode they are being

transacted in.

Example:

<Collection:_ ModeParameters>
<ObjectName:RIAD_06>
<StartDate:01-JAN-1996 01:01:31>

<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Modelnfo:
<IItem:Item03197>
<Cmd:ChangeMode>
<DASS:True>
<MaxStackTotal:9999999.99>
<Mode:RIAD>
<LINVZero:True>
<MC:True>
<SessionReceipt:107>
<SettlementProduct:11215>
<AlwaysPrintReceipt: True>
<ReceiptTitle: Remittance In Slip (Auto Distribution)>
<CallApp:>>
<ReceiptHotKey:Disabled>
<ModeTitle:Rem In ADC>
<ReverseSense:True>
<PermanentSense:In>
<PrimaryMappings:>
<SecondaryMappings:
<LI>
<L2:3047>
<L3:3028>
<LS5:3017>
<VolSValue:Zero>
>
>
Ficld Name Description Format I Comments
Collection String ModeParameters
ObjectName Identifier identifying object mode String
StartDate Effective Start Date
EndDate Effective End Date
RData
ModeInfo
Item Menu Hierarchy Desktop button reference I String
for Mode
Cmd Command String invocation as a result of I String
button depression
DASS Boolean I Unknown
MaxStackTotal Total allowable stack total for transactions I Currency
initiated in this Mode

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 118 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,
Rollover and Stock Processing

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Mode Mode Mnemonic, tallies to product String
allowablemodes in product reference data

LINVZero Boolean I Unknown

MC Boolean I Unknown
SessionReceipt Numeric I Unknown
SettlementProduct String

AlwaysPrintReceipt Boolean I True or False
ReceiptTitle Title to appear on receipt String

CallApp Command String with which to invoke String

receipt printing

ModeTitle

ReverseSense

PermanentSense

PrimaryMappings

SecondaryMappings

ReceiptHotKey

VolSValue Value of product sale value to adopt when I String
product transacted in this mode, which is
denoted as Volume Stock

Sale, Loss or Zero
allowed

12.8 BTSSourceData Collection

A new collection BTSSourceData is introduced. The collection provides a set of objects that
soft map the Branch Trading Statement to the data which sources it. By being a soft
mechanism for representing the BTS it also provides a means to drive changes to the report

data content without necessarily requiring software changes.

Example:

<Collection:_BTSSourceData>
<ObjectName:LineCCC>
<StartDate:01-JAN-1996 00:00:31>
<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:
<RH:Cash On Hand>
<AP:C>
<SourceSUMethod:
<Method:SumAce>
<Node:
<Id:1000>
<AccType:SVNTM>
<Effect:Neg>
<Operator:+>
>
>
<PrintMethod:
<Method:SummaryLine>
<ColTotal:>

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 119 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
<ColSuspense:
<PrintValue:False>
>
<ColSUs:
<PrintValue:True>
<CalculateMethod:Sum>
<Node:
<Type:Source>
<Operator:+>
>
>
>
>
The following attributes are currently specified.
Field Name Description Format I Comments
Collection String BTSSourceData
ObjectName Mnemonic representing each data line on _I String Eg LineDDD
the report, structured to allow line inserts.
A specific object 'Parameters' is used to
define parameters that configure the use of
rollover trailer identifiers and print control
data
StartDate Effective Start Date
EndDate Effective End Date
RData
Data
RH Row Heading; the specific text heading String May have a value of
each row. The declaration and signature ‘White Space’ denoting
text lines are 'specified’ as row headings a blank heading.
and hence the row heading can actually be Alternatively attribute
up to 140 characters long can be missing to result
in a blank heading
AP Accounting Period; specifies either the String C or C-1 are valid
Current (C) or Current-1 (C-1) Trading values
Period. Data on the report is derived from
both the current and last trading periods
SourceSUMethod Attribute Group describing any data for the If not present no data is
line that has been sourced from Stock Unit calculated nor recorded
Figures. for the BTS. In such
circumstances the line
data can be derived
entirely at the time of
Report production
Method Method name known locally to EPOSS. SumAce, the one
StockUnit that allows parameters to be method currently
provided, enabling the BTS data for the defined
current object line to be retrieved and
stored for later use in BTS production
Node: Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes

to the Source Method

2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERTITAL IN CONFIDENT

Page: 120 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

Ref:

EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Id: The Node identifier from a data tree Numeric
accumulation that provides the data
AccType: The accumulator within the node which String SV, QTY, RC,
defines the specific node data SVETM, QTYETM,
RCETM, SVNTM,
QTYNTM, RCNTM
Effect: The accounting sense of the data item. String
Values will tend to be printed positive on
the BTS but can be held negative. The
Effect defines how the data is held and
hence whether sign reversal is need. The
source method will perform the sign
reversal if required
Operator An operator (+ or -) defining the operation I String +or-
should the data item need to be combined
with another
Product: Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes
to the Source Method
Id: The Product identifier from a data tree Numeric
accumulation that provides the data
AccType: The accumulator within the node which String SV, QTY, RC,
defines the specific node data SVETM, QTYETM,
RCETM, SVNTM,
QTYNTM, RCNTM
Effect: The accounting sense of the data item. String
Values will tend to be printed positive on
the BTS but can be held negative. The
Effect defines how the data is held and
hence whether sign reversal is need. The
source method will perform the sign
reversal if required
Operator An operator (+ or -) defining the operation I String +or-
should the data item need to be combined
with another
SourceSuspMethod Attribute Group describing any data for the If not present no data is
line that has been sourced from Office calculated nor recorded
Figures. for the BTS. In such
circumstances the line
data can be derived
entirely at the time of
Report production
Method Method name known locally to EROSS. SumAce, the one
StockUnit that allows parameters to be method currently
provided, enabling the BTS data for the defined
current object line to be retrieved and.
stored for later use in BTS production
Node: Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes

to the Source Method

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 121 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Id: The Node identifier from a data tree Numeric

accumulation that provides the data
AccType: The accumulator within the node which String SV, QTY, RC,

defines the specific node data SVETM, QTYETM,

RCETM, SVNTM,
QTYNTM, RCNTM

Effect: The accounting sense of the data item. String
Values will tend to be printed positive on
the BTS but can be held negative. The
Effect defines how the data is held and
hence whether sign reversal is need. The
source method will perform the sign
reversal if required

Operator An operator (+ or -) defining the operation I String +or-
should the data item need to be combined
with another

Product: Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes
to the Source Method

Id: The Product identifier from a data tree Numeric
accumulation that provides the data

AccType: The accumulator within the node which String SV, QTY, RC,
defines the specific node data SVETM, QTYETM,
RCETM, SVNTM,
QTYNTM, RCNTM

Effect: The accounting sense of the data item. String
Values will tend to be printed positive on
the BTS but can be held negative. The
Effect defines how the data is held and
hence whether sign reversal is need. The
source method will perform the sign
reversal if required

Operator An operator (+ or -) defining the operation I String +or-
should the data item need to be combined
with another

PrintMethod Attribute Group describing the data item to If not present then no
be printed value is printed

Method Method name known locally to SummaryLine,
BESReports that allows parameters to be HeadingOnly,
provided, enabling the BTS data for the StockHoldings,
current object line to be retrieved and TransactionCorrections,
placed on the BTS view. The following NewPage

methods are defined

SummaryLine - Print a Summary Page
Line. The data derivation and makeup of
the line are formulated from further
parameters

HeadingOnly - Just print Row Heading,
which can be 'White Space’ for a blank line

StockHoldings - Prints the Stock Holdings

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 122 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

Data Block, starting on a new page,
includes headers and potentially scans
multiple pages

TransactionCorrrections - Prints the
number of transaction corrections.
Parameter <LineNumMoreThan:> may be
used

NewPage - Starts a new page with a BTS
Page Header. Parameters <Node:>,
<Type:> and <Source:> also used

Line NumMoreThan

Used by <Method:NewPage>. Determines
a conditional page throw is number of lines.
utilised on page exceeds this value

Numeric I Optional; if not present
then page throw is
unconditional

ColTotal

Used by <Type:SummaryLine>. A group
determining the use of the branch total
column. Determines whether a branch total
column is to be printed. The current
implementation determines the branch
total as the sum of all printed line columns.

PrintValue

Determines if the column is to be printed

Boolean I Default True

ColSuspense

Used by <Type:SummaryLine>. A group
determining the use of the Suspense
column. Determines whether a suspense
column entry is to be printed and any
derivation of the source data

PrintValue

Determines if the column is to be printed

Boolean I Default True

CalculateMethod

Determines the data derivation calculation
method. Currently the only implementation
is Sum. All data items specified by the
<Node:> parameter are summed

String Sum

Node:

Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes
to the Print Method

Type

A submethod, or instruction within the
method, identifying whether the node
element is held locally, is sourced from a
SourceMethod.

SumSourceSU - The sum of all externally
derived SU entries on a named line. The
line can be any line

SumBTSLineSU - The sum ofall already
calculated SU entries on a named line. The
line can be any line

SourceSuspense - Derive the suspense item
from an externally specified line item as
specified. The line item must be
alphabetically less than or equal to the
current line

BTSLineSuspense - Derive the suspense
item from an item already calculated. The

SumSourceSU,
BTSLineSuspense,
SourceSuspense,
SumBTSLineSU

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 123 of 135
Fujitsu Services

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

line item must be alphabetically less than
or equal to the current line

The BTS Line identifier sourcing this data
item. If missing this means the line
identifier is that of the current collection
object

String I Eg. LINEDDD

Operator

An operator (+ or -) defining the operation
should the data item need to be combined
with another

String +or-

ColSUs

Used by <Type:SummaryLine>. A group
determining the use of the Stock Units’
columns. Determines whether stock unit
column entries are to be printed and any
derivation of the source data

PrintValue

Determines if the column is to be printed

Boolean I Default True

CalculateMethod

Determines the data derivation calculation
method. Currently the only implementation
is Sum. All data items specified by the
<Node:> parameter are summed.

String Sum

Node:

Repeat Data grouping, providing attributes
to the Print Method

Type

A submethod, or instruction within the
method, identifying whether the node
element is held locally, is sourced from a
SourceMethod, or a combination of the two

SourceSU - An externally derived SU entry
on a named line. The line item must be
alphabetically less than or equal to the
current line

BTSLineSU - Derive the item from an item
already calculated. The line item must be
alphabetically less than or equal to the
current line

SourceSU, BTSLineSU

The BTS Line identifier sourcing this data
item. If missing this means the line
identifier is that of the current collection
object

String I Eg, LINEDDD

Operator

An operator (+ or -) defining the operation
should the data item need to be combined
with another

String +or-

Print

Attribute Group describing print control
parameters

Only applicable to
object instance
'Parameters'

TotalLinesPerPage

Specifies the total number of lines that can
be printed on any page

Numeric I 44

SummaryLinesPerPge

Specifies the number of Summary Page
Value lines to be printed on a page

Numeric I 39

ProdsPerCol

Specifies the number of items to be
reported per column on the Stock Holdings

Numeric I 30

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 124 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124
Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0
COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Page
ProdDescField Specifies the product name to be used to String Data.RN
identify the stock holding
EndofReport Provides the End of Report Trailer Text, String *** END OF REPORT
automatically output, centred ood
IncludeValueStock Determines whether value stock items are I Boolean I False
to be included in the stock holdings figures
on the stock holdings page
Cc Attribute Group describing the current AP I String Only applicable to
rollover trailer identifiers object instance
‘Parameters’
Previous Currently unused String
Current Provides the rollover trailer linking all String BTSCFFiguresTrailer
BTS Items that relate to the current TP
Cl Attribute Group describing the previous String Only applicable to
AP rollover trailer identifiers object instance
‘Parameters’
Previous Provides the name of the rollover trailer String BTSBFFiguresTrailer
used to record private trailer figures in the
previous TP, as Brought Forward figures in
the current TP. It is this rollover trailer
that is replaced by C-1:Current
Current Provides the rollover trailer linking all String CurrentBTSBFFiguresT
BTS Items that relate to the previous TP railer

12.9 SuspenseSections Collection

A new collection SuspenseSections is introduced. The collection provides a set of objects that
soft map the report groups for the suspense report and cash in pouches report to the data
which sources the content of each section. The collection replaces the previously used
SuspenseGroups collection.

Example:

<Collection:_SuspenseSections>

<ObjectName:SectionAA>

<StartDate:01-JAN-1996 00:00:31>

<EndDate:>
<RData:
<Data:

<GN:Cash In Pouches>

<PID:5610>

<ShowMovements:False>
<DetailMsg: WARNING - Check this C/Fwd column equals the actual total value of pouches>
<DetailMsg: awaiting collection. If it does not, print the Cash In Pouches Awaiting Collection>

<DetailMsg: report to establish where the discrepancy is.>

<CAMappings:5075>

>

The following attributes are currently specified.

Field Name

[ Description

[Format I

Comments ]

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 125 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Ref:

EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

Collection

String

SuspenseSections.

ObjectName

Mnemonic representing each data group on
the reports, named so that ascending object
names represent the group ordering on the
reports and structured to allow line inserts.

String

Eg SectionBBB, allows
a group SectionBBA to
be inserted before it

StartDate

Effective Start Date

EndDate

Effective End Date

RData

Data

GN

Group Name, provides the legend heading
leading each group on the reports

String

The Cash In Pouches
Report only contains
one group

PID

Repeating attribute providing the product
number of each product, transactions of
which source this suspense group

Numeric

ShowMovements

Indicator providing facility to summarise
group data into a subtotal rather than show
each movement. Used on the suspense
report to summarise cash in pouch data
rather than report each movement.
Movement data for cash in pouches is
reported on the Cash In Pouches Report

Boolean

True or False. Default
value is True

DetailMsg

Repeating attribute providing a message
that is output when movements reporting is
inhibited

String

CAMappings

Provides the old link to any migrated
brought forward figures to the reports. The
possibility of a new office having suspense
movements migrated prior to point 20 in
the Impact migration process needs to be
taken account of. Previously this was
catered for by it being the object reference,
which also stipulated the order of the
groups on the report

Numeric

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 126 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref:

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

13.0 Appendix C — Affected Persistent Object Collections

This appendix provides a reference to the affected persistent object collections as a result of
changes to Balancing, rollover and handling stock by volume at S80. Each collection is

addressed by a separate sub section:

13.1 EPOSSCAP Collection

This collection contains a set of specific persistent objects, maintained by EPOSS and LFS to

record the state of the Office.

The collection currently contains two objects ‘LFS’ and ‘Office’. ‘LFS’ is not relevant to this
design so is not discussed further. The ‘Office’ object describes the current Cash Account
Period (CAP) for the Office, is written after office rollover, and has the following syntax

<Collection:EPOSSCAP>
<ObjectName:Office>
<Data
<MailsLabelsPrinted:<CAP 14:TRUE>>
<SURAT:Cl4>

<SuspenseAccountPrinted:<CAP14:TRUE>>
<CAPTrailer:<Groupld:901777><Id:1><Num:37141>>
<RolloverTrailer:<Groupld:901777><Id:1><Num:37096>>
<PreviousCAP:13>

<CAP:14>

<NextCAP:15>

<Year:2004>

‘<StartDate:24-JUN-2004 00:00:00>
<EndDate:30-JUN-2004 23:59:59>
<PrevWeekEnd:23-JUN-2004 23:59:59>,
<TP:1>

<TPTransition:1>

Postage labels report has been produced prior to rollover
Non-value stock has been declared prior to rollover. (This
becomes obsolete once transition to TP mode is complete - see
[DP] section 2.5.1.4.2).

‘Suspense account report has been produced prior to rollover
Identifies the CAP trailer from the last CAP rollover

Identifies the Rollover trailer from the last CAP rollover

Previous CAP/TP §

Current CAP/TP §

Next CAP/TP §

Financial year for current CAP/TP §

Start date for current CAP/TP §

End date for current CAP/TP §

End date for previous CAP/TP §

These describe the transition states when moving from CAP to TP-
based accounting. See Final CAP Rollover and Transition
(6.1.2.6),

Figure 13 - EPOSSCAP Office Object Syntax

§ Note that for backwards compatibility, CAP-related fields are reused to hold the equivalent
TP information where practical.. See Approach Taken to Transition (5.1.2.3) for more details.

13.2 StockUnits Collection

This collection holds all the Stock Units with their state.

<Collection:StockUnits>

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 127 of 135
Fujitsu Services

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref:

EA/HLD/005

Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date:

Version: 2.0

12/09/2005

<ObjectName:SU1>
<Data

<Shared:False>

<Locked:False>

<LockedBy:>

<CAP:14>

<BP:1>

<NextCAP:15>

<StartDate: 01/07/2004>

<EndDate: 07/07/2004 23:59:59>

<UserBalancing:MIGRO1>

<Inactive:False>

<Balancing:False>

<BalanceStatus:Dirty>

<RolloverTrailer: <Groupld:901777><Id:1><Num:59098>>

<CAPRolloverTrailer:<Groupld:901777><Id:1><Num:59053>

<AdjustStock:True>

<TPs1>

<TPTransition:1>

Name of the Stock Unit

True for shared or False for individual stock units.
True if locked, False otherwise.

Name of locking User (if any)

Current CAP/TP §

Current Balancing Period

Next CAP/TP §

Starting Date for current CAP/TP § (dd/mm/yy)

Ending Date for current CAP/TP § (dd/mmiyy hh:mm:ss)
User Id balancing the stock unit

True if the inactive, False otherwise

True if in the process of balancing, False otherwise

Dirty if transactions performed, Clean otherwise

Points to the Rollover Trailer message

Points to the CAP Rollover Trailer message

Denotes whether stock has been adjusted

These describe the transition states when moving from
CAP to TP-based accounting. See Final CAP Rollover and
Transition (5.1.2.6)

Figure 14 - StockUnits Object Syntax

© 2005 Fujitsu Services

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 128 of 135

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

14.0 Appendix D — Overview of Riposte Message Expiry

This appendix provides an overview of the coordinated management of Message Store
Messages by both counter applications and Riposte with respect to recording Message Expiry
values.

Each message in the message store contains a number of attributes. One such attribute is the
<Expiry:> attribute. This attribute, the value of which is held as a number of days, determines
the period for which the message will remain in the message store, after which it is deleted by
Riposte archiving software. In relation to Extending Retention Periods all messages that are
required for the EPOSS Balancing functionality must be retained long enough for them to be
still available when the balancing process commences, and throughout the balancing process if
their need is still required. . In addition, all messages that are required to support reporting
and other transactional activity within an extended Trading Period also need to be retained up
to the point of successful Trading Period rollover.

When a message is written to the message store by a counter application it may or may not
provide a value for the <Expiry:> attribute to the message. If no value is supplied Riposte
provides a value, being that of the 'DefaultMessageExpiry' from Riposte Configuration
Parameters.

If the application provides a value then Riposte will determine if the value is within the limits
of the 'MinMessageExpiry' and the 'MaxMessageExpiry' within Riposte Configuration
Parameters. If the supplied value is outside the range then it is replaced by the appropriate
limit to enforce a value within the range.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 129 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

15.0 Appendix E — EPOSS Accounting Node Structure

The following appendix provides an introduction to the Accounting Node Structure.

A major part of Report Preparation involves the initialisation and supply of the parameters for
EPOSS Data Server. These parameters relate to the EPOSS Accounting Node Structure, and
establish how an instance of the structure will be built for a particular report given the
contributing transactions. In other words, the Reporting Application acts as a client
Application and Data Server as a Server component.

The Accounting Node Structure is built by Data Server based on a structure specified in
reference data by the collections EPOSSNodes and EPOSSDNodes. Through EPOSSNodes
an Accounting Hierarchy is specified forming the summarisation hierarchy for the
accumulation of transaction quantities and values in a report. The Dynamic Node structure,
through EPOSSDNodes, determines the way in which the Transaction Data is structured so
that information of like transactions can also be summarised. The dynamic structure can be
used as a vehicle to order report content, for example by Stock Unit within Balance Period.

The EPOSS Accounting Hierarchy consists of a structure of EPOSS Accounting Nodes. The
accounting node hierarchy is supplied by Fujitsu Services and agreed with Post Office Limited
and is made up of a selection of Nodes which are used to accumulate product transactions in
each of the different modes (e.g. Serve Customer, Remittance). These nodes belong to a
collection EPOSSNodes and their position in the hierarchy determine the level of abstraction
at which a product is described and their level of accumulation. Each Product when transacted
in serve customer mode is given a set of primary mappings, (defined in EPOSSProducts), and
transactions may also be given a secondary mapping depending on the mode in which they are
transacted. Secondary mappings are optionally defined against each mode in collection
ModeParameters, this secondary mapping is defaulted to all transactions performed in a
particular mode. The Secondary mapping may however be overridden for specific product
transactions if an entry for that product/mode combination exists in collection
CofAProductModes. This collection will be replaced at Impact Release 3 by the use of Post
Office Product Modes. A Stock Product that is analysed by Volume as opposed to Value also
has Tertiary Mapping, these being defined within the EPOSSProducts collection optionally
and will be applied to all transactions of products for which Tertiary Mappings are defined,
given the mode of the transaction.

These mappings together tell the system where on the node hierarchy to accumulate each
transaction for each of the Primary, Secondary and Tertiary mappings.

Therefore:

a All transactions have a Primary Mapping

a Some transactions have a secondary mapping (depending on Mode of transaction)

a Some transactions have a Tertiary mapping (depending on the product being
transacted and the Mode of the transaction)

The Node levels are structured in the EPOSS Accounting hierarchy in a decreasing levels, i.e.
the Level 5 Node is at the top most level of the Accounting Hierarchy and the Level 1 Node is
at the lowest level of the Hierarchy.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 130 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005
Level § ---------------------------- EPOSS Node
oo

Level 4--------------------- EPOSS Node EPOSS Node

ot
Level 3------------ EPOSS Node EPOSS Node

sl

Level 2---I EPOSS Node EPOSS Node

_———
Level 1------------ EPOSS Node EPOSS Node

Figure 15 - EPOSS Accounting Node Hierarchy

These levels will be populated with different EPOSSNodes, each describing a product at a
different level of abstraction. The Level 1 Node is the lowest level of abstraction, e.g. “First
Class Stamp”, and the Level 2 Node would be “Postage Item”. There is a parent-child
relationship, where the “I Class Stamp” is a child node of the “Postage Item”. The
specification of which Accounting Nodes will be accumulated into, when a particular product
is transacted, is specified by Reference Data, in the Product Collection.

The First Class Stamp, for example, has a EPOSSNode mapping of five levels specified, by the
attributes <L1:1704><L2:2055><L3:3007><L4:3008><LS5:3017> as shown below:

<Collection:EPOSSProducts>
<ObjectName:19>

<PM:
<L1:1704>
<L2:2055>
<L3:3007>
<L4:3008>
<L5:3017>>

Figure 16 —- Example EPOSSNode Primary Mapping

Each EPOSSNode currently has three associated data leaves, or accumulators. These
accumulators define what data is to be accumulated from each transaction that contributes to
the node. The main accumulators have one data leaf relating to the Quantity (Qty), the second
Record Count (RC), providing a count of transactions contributing to the node, and the third
relates to Sales Value (SV). The data leaves, or accumulators, exist as a combination of

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 131 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

specifying the transaction attribute to be aggregated, together with a function describing how
the data is to be aggregated. Data attributes can be summed (Sum) or counted (Count). So to
obtain a 'count' of transactions the accumulator RC is incremented by I for each transaction
However counting sale values would give an incorrect result; rather sale values are summed.

By extending the potential available accumulators to include additional Functions it is possible
to add conditional functionality to Data Server without incorporating hard coded Business
rules within the Server component.

If a transaction involved the sales of a number of First Class Stamps, the Product Specification
(EPOSSProduct) for the item will specify which nodes on the hierarchy the quantities and
values are to be accumulated into. The accumulators will be accumulated accordingly, so that
the specified nodes in the Accounting Hierarchy will be updated with the transaction data.
This means that in the case of the First Class Stamp, the parent Node above “Postage Item”
will also be updated when the transaction values are accumulated. This accumulation will
proceed up the hierarchy of Nodes reaching the Balancing Node (3017), as depicted in the
following diagram.

EPOSSNode 3017
Level 5 ---------------------------- le RC
Balance oe

a
Level 4 ------------------- EPOSSNode 3008 ae
Value Stock And MOPs
Qty
Level 3 ---------- EPOSSNode 3007 I _"RC.
—I Data Accumulation

Level 2 --- reas ms . 7
EPOSSNode 1704
Level 1--7 First Class Stamps

Figure 17 - EPOSSNode Data Accumulation

The parent and child relationship defines the hierarchy between Group Nodes, where a parent
Node with an accumulate item is updated whenever the child Group Node accumulate item is
updated.

In addition to building the Accounting Node Hierarchy, Data Server also builds the EPOSS
Dynamic Node (EPOSSDNode) chain specification which determines how the Reports are
grouped and ordered. EPOSSDNodes form a hierarchy structured according to the required
data groupings to appear on the report appended to the last node in the hierarchy. Although
the figure above shows a Level 1 Node as the last, in some transactions the hierarchy may end
at a Level 2 Node. The DNode specification is not dependent on the level at which the Node
structure ends, as the DNodes are appended to the terminating Node.

The Dynamic Node specification for a report may, for example, dictate that the transactions
will be grouped first by Session Date, Stock Unit, Balance Period and finally by Session

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 132 of 135
FUJ00085124

FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

Identifiers. The EPOSS Accounting Node Structure, which consists of both the static
Accounting Nodes and dynamic DNodes, is a means for populating and ordering the data for
the production of the Report. Data Server builds the structure based on the EPOSSNode and
EPOSSDNode specification and accumulates the data leaves accordingly with the transaction
Quantities, Record Counts and Sale Values. The structure then provides all the necessary data
for populating the Report. The full structure is shown below.

Level 5 ----------------------------- EPOSSNode 3017
Balance
EPOSSNode 3008
Level 4.--------------------
Value Stock And MOPs {_Re_]
Level 3------------ EPOSSNode 3007 I RC] EPOSS Accounting
luc Stoel Node Hierarchy
Qty
Level 2 ---- iain 2085 {_Re_]
EPOSSNode 1704 =
le
Level 1-1) First lass Stamps [_Re_]
Level -1 -------- Date Grouping { Rc]
sv
{_aty_]
Level -2------- LI Stock Unit
Grouping {_R¢_]
sh EPOSS Dynamic
Node Hierarchy
Level -3------------
Level -4.------------- Session ID

Grouping

Figure 18 - Dynamic EPOSS Nodes

Therefore, report specific dynamic accounting nodes may be defined over and above the
Accounting Hierarchy. Quantity and value totals plus transaction counts are also accumulated
for the Dynamic Nodes.

The Dynamic Nodes provide for the accumulation of data in specific groupings, e.g. a dynamic
node may group all products being reported by date or by stock unit or by date within stock
unit. The dynamic nodes effectively provide the sorting and sub-totalling facilities.

The structure is also populated by Data Server with the selected transactions messages. These
transaction messages are extracted from the Message Store, based on the Report Criteria.

The input to Data Server from the Reporting Service, would be the Report Criteria string, the
EPOSSNode and EPOSSDNode specifications for that particular report. Data Server uses this
information, extracts the transaction messages based on the Report Criteria. Using SQL-based

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 133 of 135
FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Fujitsu Services IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing, Ref: EA/HLD/005
Rollover and Stock Processing
Version: 2.0

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Date: 12/09/2005

queries built from the Report Criteria, Data Server is returned a record containing the subset
of transaction messages from the RMS.
EPOSSNode and

Report Criteria EPOSSDNode
1 Specification

Data Server

Riposte Message

‘Store SELECTED

TRANSACTION
MESSAGES

EPOSSONode

rs

Figure 19 — Populating the EPOSSNode Tree

When the transaction messages have been extracted, Data Server builds an instance of the
structure. This is based on the EPOSSNode and EPOSSDNode specification. This structure
may be likened to a tree structure comprising the empty data leaves. The transaction data is
then accumulated throughout the structure. When this task is completed, the structure is made
available to the Reporting Client. An example of an actual instance of a structure is shown
below.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE Page: 134 of 135
Fujitsu Services
Rollover and Stock Processing

COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

IMPACT Release 3 Counter Design for Balancing,

FUJ00085124
FUJ00085124

Ref: EA/HLD/005

Version: 2.0

Date: 12/09/2005

2030 MONO
2033 BBC TV LICENCE STAMP
2050 PHILATELIC ITEMS

2055 POSTAGE

[Acc] [+] [Sum] Qty (-9) (OF:0)
[Ace] [+

}
[Acc] [+] [SumNTM] SVNTM (0) (OF:0)
1700 Postage Other
[Acc] [+] [Sum] Qty
Acc] [+] [Count] RC
Ace] [+] [Sum] SV
i) 1702 Postage Stamps
[Aco] [+] [Sum] Oty
Ace] [+] [Count] RC
Ace] [+] [Sum] SV
5) 1704 First Class Stamps
[Ace] [+] [Sum] Oty (-3) (OF:0)
Ace] [+] [Count] RC (2) (F:0)
Ace] [+] [Sum] SV (0.28) (OF:0)
Ace] [+] [SumNTM] SVNTM (0) (GF:0)
$001 19

[Ace] [+] [Sum] EPOSSTransaction.Qly (-9) (OF:0}

[Acc] [+] [Count] EPOSS Transaction ProductNo (2} (OF:0)
[Acc] [+] [Sum] EPOSSTransaction SaleValue (0.28) (OF-0}
[Acc] [+] [SumNTM] EPOSS Transaction SaleValue (0) (OF:0)
Acc] [+] [Sum] EPOSS Transaction AdditionalD ata BDC. POty

1706 Second Class Stamps

Figure 20 - Sample Populated EPOSSNode Tree

The Reporting Service subsequently extracts the Data from the structure as required, when

the Report is printed or previewed.

© 2005 Fujitsu Services COMMERCIAL IN CONFIDENCE

Page: 135 of 135
