FUJ00156309
FUJ00156309

From: Thomas Penny[/O=EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=THOMASP]
Sent: Thur 04/11/2010 8 AM (UTC)

To: Dunks And\
Ce: Bains Rajbinderf,
Subject: FW: HOSI trial

Munro Donnaft

Please see note below concerning Porters Ave.

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 961

6, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London W1U 3BW
This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does
not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: Lisa Allen
Sent: 03 November 2010
To: Thomas Penny
Subject: HOSI trial

Penny

Just to confirm that Andy Dunks and yourself are required on Tuesday 9" November at Snaresbrook Crown Court.
Andy is first on at 10:00am and you are on 3% so probably about 11ish. Gareth is not required to attend at the moment
but could I ask that he is on standby should the defence call their expert or use some of his evidence.

As discussed we also need to cover off the Phil Budd statement as a matter of urgency in order to prevent him being
summonsed to court. Can you please speak with Steve Evans about reproducing a similar statement and confirm that
he is available and willing to attend court to give evidence. He would be last on Monday and so there could be a
possibility that he could be recalled Tuesday if the trial is running behind schedule.

Many thanks for your urgent attention.
FUJ00156309
FUJ00156309

Regards

Lisa
Investigator
Fraud Strand

Oo : Post Office® Ltd Security, PO BOX 467, Grays, Essex, RM17 9HA.

THINK BEFORE
YOU PRINT

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recpient(s;
and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
FF you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies ofthe original message

Lenco iia iciccncaaanaasaicsass Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and
Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This
email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this
in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

