FUJ00152993

FUJ00152993
.
Thomas Penny
From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 26 February 2010 15:18
To: ‘jarnail.a.singh@: ee a
Ce: Kirkham Suzie; Lillywhite Tom, ‘david.x.gray@} GRO
‘mark.dinsdale@ i
Subject: FW: REGINA v SEEMAMISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH
MARCH 2010
Attachments: NB Pro 003new version2_0.doc; SVMSECPRO0017 V0.1.doc; SVMSDI.!SD0017-

Service Desc.doc

pS

NB Pro 003new SVMSECPROO017 SVMSDMSD0017- I
version2_0.doc (... ¥0.1.duc (503 KB... Service Desc.doc... PO

il

H-3531D

Jarnail

Further to your exchange with Gareth Jenkins I am writing to advise you tl.
a formal process agreed between Post Office and Fujitsu for Prosecution Su:
activities, I attach copies of these processes for your review. The dial
SVM/SEC/PRO/0017 will replace NB/PRO.003.

We have been ta.king to you in some detail regarding the information r
to identify what has happened in this case and, at this late stage, it wi?
not be possible to provide the depth of information we could have a few wr. ‘
based on analysis of transaction logs. Further, the identification of wh:
transaction logs are required should be identified by the POL investigacic
on their knowlecje of the case, as is the norm in such cases, not our expe

Any information Post Office may require relating to prosecutions is fed th
Casework Teain, headed by Mark Dinsdale, now housed in Salford, to mysel‘ vr '
Lillywhite in my absence.

If you require a conference call with Gareth Jenkins regarding this case
you provide me with the scope of the intended discussions and some sugges
timeframes as he is heavily involved with the migration of the Horizon

Kind regards
Penny

‘enny Thomas
Security Anesysi, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Royal Mail Group Account Lovelace Road, Brackne!', Berks
RG12 BSN aneeennennnnnnnniennnnnnnnnnnnennnn a

Tel: H i

Fax: L. }

E-Mail: penny. thomast -

Web: http: //uk. fuy :

Fujitsu Service: Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Offi Baker
Street, London Wid 3BW

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not tee

that this E-.ai. has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virns-

----- Original Message-----
Jenkins Gaceth GI
26 February 2010 12:35
To: jarnail.a.singh®
Cc: Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCI 2012

Jarnail,
FUJ00152993
FUJ00152993

I've no idea whet it is that the defence is looking for in this case or e:
is alleged to have happened. It is normal to identify a specific time pe:
a month to look for some specific fraudulent transactions. As I've no id
what is being alleged I can't really advise as to what evidence might be :

either to sugport the prosecution or the defence. POL's prosecution supp< team have
formal mecha..isn. to request logs for specific periods and there is a proce to do
that. Although I have suggested for some time that these logs are requesi “i, I

understand that no such request has been made to Fujitsu. Trying to analy
transactions ov°r a period of 2 or 3 years is likely to take several week:
of effort - -spr:ially if it is not clear what is being looked for - and
cannot commit thuc amount of time to it.

nonths

Although I svoke to the Defence Expert I have no direct contact details fc hem.
Trawling through logs to show that nothing has happened is next to imposs!:!o what we
need to be looking for is something specific and I have no idea what exac is
alleged to have happened. Therefore I'm not sure what I can do to help.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenki
Distinguished Er. jineer
Applications Arcnitect
Royal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Roa
Tel: t

ire, RG12 8SN
Internal:

er 31/12/2009) ,

Mobile: i ______GRO Internal:

email: Gareth. Jenkins@y -

Web: http: //uk, fujitsu.com

P Please co:sid:.- the environmen’. - do you really need to print this ena

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Offic 22 Baker

Street, Londun, #1U 3BW

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents w:: subject

to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not rontee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusf
mnai Lto:jarnail.a.singh@,
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: REG"NA ~ SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 20°
URGENT
Dear Gareth,
Thank you for your E-Mail of the 25th February 2010
I should be grat.:ful if you would kindly please consider what logs you ne <0 look at

and how long th. exercise might take. I hope that this takes only a rel:
period need: to .¢ looked at, in light of the Defendant's regular inflatic
you could consiuer that with the Defence's Expert.. Could you then pleas: <inily

liaise with the Defence Expert and hopefully you can do this exercise tog .r and sce
if there is any pattern of errors which might have been counterbalanced Is “ho
Defendant's al: accounting.

I am very anxious to get this matter concluded as soon as possible so tha’ ~ are
ready for Tr’al at Guildford Crown Court on the 15th March 2010.

You can obviously speak to me direct onf”~ “I or our Barrister War ‘ics Tatford

on his mobile {

FUJ00152993
FUJ00152993

» Many thanks.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Teain

Tel.No
Fax.No

PS Could you please let me have a signed copy of your two statements up
to date.

FOI III IIE I CII SIG ICICI ISI IOI IOI III OI ISIS If feed te a a

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHO

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then d this
email from your system. aN
JSONISGINIGSI I OIE OR NESSES SESS USEC CEG SSSI IOS III IOS ISI I III I IGE

