FUJ00152991
FUJ00152991

Thomas Penny

From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 26 February 2010 15:18
To: ‘jarnail.a.singhi

Ce: Kirkham Suzie; cilywite Tom; david. X.gray, .
‘mark.dinsdalg

Subject: FW: REGINA V SEEM TIISRE “GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH
MARCH 2010

Attachments: NB Pro 003new version2_0.doc; SVMSECPRO0017 VO.1.doc; SVMSDMSD0017-

Service Desc.doc

NB Pro Q03new = SVMSECPROOO17 SVMSDMSD0017-
version2_0.doc (... VO.1.doc (503 KB... Service Desc.doc..

Jarnail

Further to your exchange with Garech Jenkins I am writing to advise you that there is
formal process agreed between Post Office and Fujitsu for Prosecution Support

ctivities, I attach copies of these processes for your review. The draft document . +,

SVM/SEC/PRO/0917 + eplace NB/PRO.003. os

We have been talking to you in some detail regarding the information required for us
to identify w has happened in this case and, at this late stage, it will clearly
not be possible to provide the depth of information we could have a few weeks ago
based on analysis of transaction logs. Further, the identification of which
transaction logs a juired should be identified by the POL investigation team baséd.¥
on their knowledge of the case, as is the norm in such cases, not our expert. fy.

Any information Post Office may require relating to prosecutions is fed through the ;
Casework Te headed by Mark Dinsdale, now housed in Salford, to myself or Tom :
Lillywhite in absence 2

If you require a conf ce call with Gareth Jenkins regarding this case please could
you provide i scope of intended discussions and some suggested
timeframes as he is heavily involved with the migration of the Horizon system.

Kind regards
Penny

‘enny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services
Fujitsu Servi
RG12 8SN
Tel:
Mob:
Fax:
E-Mail:
Web:
Fujitsu Services
Street, Londo

Group Account Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berks

in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker

This E-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject,.’,
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free. ed

----- Original Message-----
From: Jenkins Gareth ¢

Sent: 26 F
To: jarnail.a.sir
Cc: Thomas Penny
Subject: RE: ..7GINA

MA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

Jarnail,

FUJ00152991
FUJ00152991

is alleged to have happened. It is normal to identify a specific time period of abojiti'
a month to 19>: for some specific fraudulent transactions. As I've no idea exactly
what is being alleged I can't really advise as to what evidence might be required
either to support the prosecution or the defence. POL's prosecution support team have
formal mechanisia to request logs for specific periods and there is a process to do
that. Althouyh I have suggested for some time that these logs are requested, I
understand that no such request has been made to Fujitsu. Trying to analyse
transactions over a period of 2 or 3 years is likely to take several weeks or month
of effort - especially if it is not clear what is being looked for - and I certainly.
cannot commit that amount of time to it.

Although I spuke to the Defence Expert I have no direct contact details for him.

Trawling through logs to show that nothing has happened is next to impossible what wé
need to be looking for is something specific and I have no idea what exactly is
alleged to huvs happened. Therefore I'm not sure what I can do to help.

Regards
Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications Architect
oyal Mail Group Account

FUJITSU
Lovelace Ro:
Tel:

Mobile:
email:
Web: hetp: /7ak

jitsu.com
P Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

Fujitsu Services Limi
Street, London, W1U 3

, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22 Baker:

a
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject
to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee
that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virusfree.

Original Messag
vrom: jarnail.a.sing{
vent: 26 February 2010 12:22

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA GUILDFORD CROWN COURT TRIAL - 15TH MARCH 2010

URGENT
Dear Gareth,
Thank you for your E-Mail of the 25th February 2010

I should be y:ateful i: you would kindly please consider what logs you need to look at:
and how long this exercise might take. I hope that this takes only a relatively short
period needs to be looked at, in light of the Defendant's regular inflations. Perhap;
you could consider that with the Defence's ixpert.. Could you then please kindly =
liaise with Defence Expert and hopefully you can do this exercise together and sees:
if there is any pattern of errors which might have been counterbalanced by the
Defendant's false accounting.

I am very anxious to get this matter concluded as soon as possible so that we are
ready for Trial at Guildford Crown Court on.the 15th March 2010.

or our Barrister Warwick Tatford.:

direct on

You can obviou. kt
on his mobile! GRO I

FUJ00152991
FUJ00152991

Many thanks.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawye
Criminal Law

PS Could you please let mé have a signed copy of your two statements up
to date.

FEI IOI ISOS I TUCO ISIS GIORGI III II ICICI I ok

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales. registered number
4138203 regisrered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from youzy system.
ttt tet ee eee ee ee eee ee eee eee ee ee eee eee es

a

