FUJ00153230
FUJ00153230

Page 1 of 4

ae I —=

From: Thomas Penny POH -

Sent: 24 August 2010 09:33 —

To: Jenkins Gareth Gl

Subject: FW: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL.

Gareth
FYI

Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Fujitsu Services Retail & Ro
Lovelace Koad. #

This E-mail is only for the use ofits Intended recipient its contents are ‘subject toa uty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

From: John Longman E
Sent: 20 August 2010 12:29

To: Thomas Penny

Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

Hi Penny 1
In relation to the three points mentioned below in your e-mail of 27th July, Jarnail has refused the defence
request for this information. I reproduce his reply to me as follows:

"Thank you for your E-Mail of 11" August 2010 and our subsequent telephone conversation. The position with regard to the
access the Defence has requested, our position is consistent and has not changed and we are under no obligation to grant them
such an access to the system in the Midlands or the operation at Chesterfield or the system change. If they wish to proceed
with this they can do so by means of Section 8 application to the Court”.

To date I have not heard any more from the defence.

In relation to the printing of the transaction log (13 months) I estimated that there would be 920,000 pages if 10 jury bundles
were required. An oiitside printing company could do this for around £19,000, Jamail has also opposed this and we are
waiting for the defences’ response.

Regards

Jon Longman

From: Thomas Penny
Sent: 27 July 2010 14:
To: John Longman

Cc: Jane M Owen
Subject: RE: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

25/08/2010
FUJ00153230
FUJ00153230

Page 2 of 4

John
I've had a discussion with Gareth

It was agreed during the meeting between Gareth and Charles that Charles would provide notes reflecting the
discussion; Gareth has not yet received these.

His views on the email string are:-

1. Access to system in Midlands: This was not something we discussed in detail. it would appear that
Charles is aware of a Post Office which is having issues similar to those which have resulted in
prosecution, but that there are currently no prosecutions in place. He would like to monitor exactly what
happens in this branch (probably with a video camera) and compare that with the system logs (hoping to
find a mismatch!). However the Postmaster is covered by confidentiality agreements, which mean that
this cannot be done with out permission of POL. I assume that this is a request to be able to do this. I’m
also assuming that help would be required from Fujitsu in retrieving logs from the system to compare with
the video. NB this probably needs to be done quickly before migrating to HNG-X. Charles's first report
refers to such a branch I believe. I've no idea where this postmaster would stand in respect of any
problems that'they have had but which are not yet visible to POL, or in respect of what they have already
said to Charles.

2. Access to Chesterfield: Charles is still of the opinion that understanding how P&BA operate and in
particular how they identify errors and process them as Transaction Corrections may help his case. I’ve
pointed out that anything in this area ‘that could affect the accounts is already visible to him in the Horizon
logs and_so I don't see that this is likely to be of help to him. However he would still like to pursue this line
of exploration.

3. ‘System Change Requests: Basically, he was asking to look at all system faults. I suggested that as we
kept all testing.and Live faults in the same system and that there were around 200,000 of them, then this
wasn't going to get him far. He then suggested looking at system changes and would like to see all
changes that have happened to the system. Again, I don't think this will help and I don’t know how
practical it is for Fujitsu's Release Management to provide that. I think all we can do is ask the question.

My view is that Charles is “fishing” and I don’t personally support any of.these requests. However they seem
harmless — other than wasting a lot of people's time — and hence money.

Kind regards
Penny

Penny Thomas
Security Analyst, Customer Services

Reiail & Royall Mail Group Aqcounl

Ip: ffuk. fujitsu.

imited, Registered in Engiand no 96056, Registered Office 22. Baker Strect, London WiU SBW 7
mail is only for the use ofits intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may be privileged. Fujitsu
Services does not guarantee that this E-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that itis virus-free. .

From: John Longman ['_
Sent: 27 July 2010 11:25
To: Thomas Penny

Subject: FW: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

Penny
As discussed.
Could you ask Gareth to explain in more detail as to how the three points raised by Izzy Hogg below came

about. I would specifically like to know more details of the system in the midlands that is referred to in her first
point.

25/08/2010
FUJ00153230
FUJ00153230

Page 3 of 4

Regards

Jon Longman '

From: Marilyn Benjamin On Behalf Of Jarnail A Singh

Sent: 27 July 2010 10:42

To: John Longman; Watwick Tatford

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

l enclose a copy of an E-Mail received from Issy Hogg, the Defence Solicitors of the 22" July 2010, the
content of which is self explanatory. Could you please be kind enough to let me have your urgent
instructions as to the access and information she is requesting in respect of the system in the
Midlands and the operation at Chesterfield and the error logs. I will contact Gareth Jenkins to find
out what transpired at the meeting with Charles McLachlan.

I await to hear from you.

Jarnail Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

From: Issy Hogg [!
Sent: 22 July 2010 07:30
To: Jarnail A Singh
Subject: Misra

Jarnail,

As a result of the meeting that took place between Charlés
McLachlan and Gareth Jenkins as directed by the judge, we now need
to have:-

- access to the system in the Midlands where it appears there are
live, reproducible errors. .

- access to the operations at Chesterfield to understand how
reconciliation and transaction corrections are dealt with.

= access to the system change requests, known error log and new
release documentation to understand what problems have had to be
fixed.

Please can you contact me with r rd to these issues. Please can
you respond via hannah. ivor

“> as I will be on
holiday from lunchtime today until 16th August. Hannah will ensure
all your emails are responded to.

Regards,

Issy

25/08/2010
FUJ00153230
FUJ00153230

Page 4 of 4

Issy Hogg

Coomber Rich Solicitors
Yard House, Basingstoke, RG21 7NX
SRA 308901

This e-mail is confidential and intended solely for the use by the
individual to whom it was addressed. If you are not the intended
recipient, you are hereby notified that any using, printing,
dissemination, distribution or copying of this e-mail or any part
of it is strictly prohibited. Please delete all physical and
electronic copies you may have. Any views expressed in this message
may be those of the individual sender and may not necessarily
represent the views of Coomber Rich Solicitors.

(See attached file: C.htm)

ii eeneaneee **** Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England
and Wales registered number.4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

wane iiclaleiiaiiia il iia *** Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England
and Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y
0HQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

25/08/2010
