FUJ00153019
FUJ00153019

Thomas Penny __ _ wun

monica.thompsot on behalf of jarnail. a. a singt{ GRO
, 03 March 2010 14:55
H Thomas Penny
Subject: R -v- Seema Misra Guildford Crown Court - Trial - 15 March 2010 - West Byfleet Our Ref:
CRM/258932/JSX

Dear Penny

Thank you for your Email today. What has been requested through Mark Dinsdale is
transaction log details for West Byfleet (this is the whole of the false accounting
period to which Ms Misra has pleaded guilty to) from 1 December 2006 to 31 December
2007. This should then be given to Gareth Jenkins at Fujitsu to confirm by his
witness statement whether there are any errors within. the Horizon system for the
transaction log period. :
Gareth Jenkins will need to study the Defence expert's reports which he has in hand
and he had lengthy discussions with the Defence expert Charles McLachlan (mobile
number on 12 February 2010. There is a need for an urgent meeting where
these two experts can meet where the Defence expert reports and his concerns about the
Horizon system can be discussed. Gareth Jenkins can then use his expertise to rebut
answer his various hypotheses or theories. He has done that to a certain extent in
s telephone discussion with him on 12 February 2010.
It may be the practical approach for Gareth Jenkins to find the shortest period span!
of transaction log data for West Byfleet, analyse it, disprove or rebut what the
Defence expert is saying in his reports. Mr Gareth Jenkins is an expert for Fujitsu.
He will give evidence in Court. The Judge and Jury will be listening to his every
word very carefully and a lot will hang on his evidence. :

It is imperative that Gareth Jenkins arrange a meeting with the Defence expert today
“or tomorrow. The he needs to prepare a detailed report for the trial.

If I can assist in anyway, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Team

No
FOI OIC SISIIS IIIS IOIGISISI IIIS IIIS IOICIGI ISI III I ICICI GI I ISI IE

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, "EC4Y 0HQ

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.
If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this

email from your system.
FUSS UEE IS ISOS ISOS ISIS ISERIES IIIS SSIS II III IO
