FUJ00155018
FUJ00155018

Page 1 of 2

John Li i GRO.
rom: John Longman

Sent; 91 August 2011 13:57 644D

To: Thomas Penny
‘Subject: FW: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Penny

In addition to this information I omitted one other point, The solicitors have also asked for details of the
hardware records for each Post Office®. Similar to West Byfleet, I think they want to know the serial
numbers of the equipment installed and whether it was installed as new or reconditioned. If reconditioned
where did it come from, was it reconditioned or repaired because of a fault, if so what was the fault. Are
you able to supply this information?

Regards

Your Lowgmast

Security Manager
Security Operations - South

Address: Post Office® Ltd Secunty. 2 Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London, EC 1V 3HQ.

Post Oifice Ltd isa trading name of Royal Meil Group Ltd. Registered in England and Wales number. 2754540.
Registered Office: 148 Qld Street, London, EC1V3HO

Contisentiat inform ation: This emad me ssage isfor the sote use of the intended recipleni(s) and may contain

Confidentialand privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibted.

‘Myon are nat the intended recipient please contact me by repY emad and destroy ailcopies of the orginal me ssage.
Please corsider the envicerment before printing Bis mal _

From: John Longman
‘Sent: 30 August 2011 10:19

To: ‘Thomas Penny’

‘Ce: Jane M Owen; Jason G Collins; Graham C Ward

‘Subject: Horizon Integrity Challenges - Alderley Edge Post Office (Scott Darlington) & Astwood Bank
Post Office (Julian Wilson)

Hi Penny

Ihave been asked to assist Post Office® solicitors who are dealing with the above two cases whereby
Horizon integrity is being called into question. Both subpostmasters have been prosecuted but are
refusing to repay the audit shortages found during the investigation. The subpostmasters have both
employed the same firm of Solicitors who are alleging amongst a whole list of concerns raised, that the
Horizon system suffers with inherent defects.

Post Office® Ltd has been asked to produce a large amount of information similar to the West Byfleet
case. Some of the information requested can be provided by Post Office® Ltd but some can only be
provided by Fujitsu

Could the following items be provided by Fujitsu for both Post Offices and if there is to be a cost to Post
Office® Ltd for this information could an approximate costing be provided before the data is obtained.

ASTWOOD BANK.

D) Details of Horizon system testing with respect to the ability of the Horizon system to produce
information with sufficient clarity to allow a Subpostmaster to reconcile discrepancies.

ii) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Astwood Bank Post Office® for the period
‘1st November 2002 to 1th September 2008.

ii) Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2009 and the
reason for those updates.

iv) The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon

Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the losses that were found within the system and
details of how those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with.

ALDERLY EDGE

y) Details of Horizon system testing with respect to the ability of the Horizon system to
produce information with sufficient clanity to allow a Subpostmaster to reconcile
discrepancies.

vi) Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) calls made from Alderly Edge Post Office® for the period
12th March 2005 to 28th February 2009.

) Details of any firmware and software updates of Horizon between 2005 - 2009 and the

reason for those updates.

viii) The documents relating to the assessment of the pilot testing of Horizon Mark 2 and Horizon

Mark 3, the results of those assessments, the losses that were found within the system and
details of how those losses were reconciled or otherwise dealt with.

01/09/2011
FUJ00155018
FUJ00155018

. Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number 4138203
registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHO This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee
only. I you are-notthe named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received
this in error, please contact the sender and'then delete this email from your system.

01/09/2011
