FUJ00079796
FUJ00079796

CR/COR/oo1

David Rees

12 September 1997

Dear David

Below are Pathway’s responses to the questions contained in your
fax of 10 September. I am faxing this to you today and will speak
to you on the telephone to go over any points arising.

1. On the back of your letter to Peter of the 29
August there was a plan which showed a
milestone at the 1°t September of “Scaleability
of Escher”. Could you please expand on what
was behind the milestone and let us know the
result?

This milestone was to take delivery of a version of
Riposte which would increase the system limits to
cover the 40,000 counters likely to be required.
The version of Escher’s Riposte system with which
we had previously been working had a system limit
which restricted it to 5,000 counters. This has now
been raised to over 100,000 counters. The release
implementing this change was delivered to Pathway
on 20" August 1997, completing this milestone.

Associated improvements in hand __ include
improving the message replication speed as the
number of correspondence servers increases. In
addition a multi-clustering technique is about to be
tested, and the introduction of sub-groups within
Riposte Groups is being considered.

2. We understand that the overall architecture is 2 Tier
Client Server, Are the servers grouped hierarchically,
i.e. are there regional servers or is there a set of
central servers?

The architecture is not client-server in the conventional
sense. The architecture uses a four-tier system: Counter
Clients, Correspondence Servers, Agent Servers, Host
Servers. Counters communicate with Correspondence
Servers in a manner which implements the message store
in a distributed database manner. Agent Servers
communicate with the Correspondence Servers to load
messages into Riposte and thence to the Counters, and
harvest messages back from the Counters via Riposte.
Host servers carry out the processing of incoming and
outgoing data.

Are there any plans to change the server hierarchy as
the network grows, and if so do you have a timetable
for such a change? Would any such change involve
software changes in the Riposte kernel?

No. The architecture outlined above is fixed and does not
require the nature or number of hierarchic levels to
change as the workload changes. Instead, as the workload
grows, all that is necessary is basically to increase the
number of units at each level - “sideways expansion”. Of
course, the network connectivity and bandwidth will need
to be kept under review as additional units are added, but
this is not an architectural issue.

From our previous discussions our understanding is
that Riposte is a very sophisticated messaging
software. Will the servers therefore be split between
messaging servers and transaction servers?

Referring to the architectural concepts outlined above, one
could say that the Correspondence Servers are messaging
servers and the Agent Servers are transaction servers,
although this is an approximate description.

Because of the nature of the Riposte system we
assume it treats even complex events as messages.
Has this led to performance problems when complex
operations are performed e.g. starting up a counter,
and if so how have these problems been overcome?

Complex operations can generate a number of
messages. These have been taken into account in
the sizing model, and as indicated above, as the
workload grows the solution is to grow the number
of Correspondence Servers and Agent Servers
sideways.

Riposte does not operate strictly as a real-time
messaging system; except for urgent messages,
messages are batched up and sent asynchronously
between the Counter and the Campus at a
convenient time. Although designed primarily to
optimise use of the ISDN links between Outlet and

FUJ00079796
FUJ00079796
Campus, this also has the benefit of batching the
message load on the Campus.

On the specific area of starting up a counter, there was
such an issue which was cleared within Riposte 5.2.

Could you please give an indication of what
performance modelling has been carried out or is
planned? Did such modelling raise any issues which
are still outstanding?

Detailed workload modelling is in progress and the
plans and status are shared with two
representatives of the PDA who are specialists in
this area and who participate in the activity. The
modelling in progress is being done in line with
detailed benchmarks of the performance of the
systems developed to date, together with
extrapolations of their perforance to the full
expected workload.

There are 10 active issues being progressed as at
today’s date. These include the need to improve the
time taken to harvest the maximum TPS
transaction volumes during the overnight TIP batch
runs on the Pathway Host systems.

Other modelling activity has concerned the
communications infrastructure between _ the
Counters and the Campuses. No problems have
been identified in this.

A comprehensive modelling exercise concerning the disk
space requirement of the Counter and Correspondence
Servers has identified a potential disk space problem at full
rollout. To address this, changes have been introduced
into Riposte, and will be available at the next release (5.4),
to provide message store compression.

Have any other performance reviews, i.e. other than
modelling, been carried out? If there have been such
reviews could you please indicate the types of issue
raised and any that are still outstanding.

Yes. As described above, detailed benchmarking activities
are carried out within The Solution Centre at Bracknell.
These have indicated a number of issues relating to the
speed of replication of the Riposte message store, and of
the creation of indexes into the message store.
Improvements introduced by Escher at Release 5.3 have
alleviated both of these problems. Benchmarking of the
PAS / CMS system was carried out at the end of last year.
This identified some areas for improvement and that work
has been put in hand.

FUJ00079796
FUJ00079796
FUJ00079796
FUJ00079796

Yours sincerely

John Dicks
Director, Customer Requirements
