FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99
Document Title: Pathway Release Policy
Document Type: Strategy Document
Abstract: This document defines the Pathway policy for the

identification and planning of new Releases of
Software and Data.

Distribution: Pathway Management Team

Document Status: APPROVED

Document Predecessor: 2.3

Author: Jim Morley, updated by Anne Cooper

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 1 of 1
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003

Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

Contents List

1. DOCUMENT CONTROL.

Ll
1.2
13

2.

2.1
2.2
2.3
24
2.5

3. CLASSIFICATION OF RELEASEB.....

3.1

3.1.1 NEW PRODUCT RELEASES
3.1.2 INFRASTRUCTURE RELEA:

3.2

4. DEFINITION OF RELEASE CONTENT...

41
4.2

5. MAINTENANCE RELEASES...

6. RELEASE SCHEDULE.

6.1
6.2

DOCUMENT HISTORY. soon senna
CHANGES FORECAST.....0.ssnnnnnnsnninnnninnnnsnnnnnnnnnnsinsnnnnnnnennssnnnnn
ABBREVIATIONS USED.

INTRODUCTION....

PURPOSE.

DEFINITION OF RELEASE

IDENTIFICATION OF NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES.
CHANGE CONTROL.

CONTRACTUAL AND FUTURE RELEASES.

Ub & RU &

a

SOFTWARE RELEASES...

6
7
8

wd

9

REFERENCE DATA RELEASES.

RELEASE CONTROL & CONTENT. 10
EMERGENCY PROCEDURES. ll

SOFTWARE RELEASES.....:.:.e0 sesenenennen
REFERENCE DATA DISTRIBUTION.......

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 2 of 1

FUJ00232435
FUJ00232435
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99
1. DOCUMENT CONTROL
1.4 DOCUMENT HISTORY
Version I Date Reason
0.1 20/10/96 First Draft for Pathway internal use only
0.2 30/10/96 Second draft following application of Pathway comments.
0.3 30/10/96 Draft for issue to the PDA.
0.4 12/11/96 Updated following PDA comments through Michael
Purchase.
0.5 17/11/96 Updated following PDA & Sponsor comments received
through Michael Purchase.
0.6 18/11/96 Further comments applied from Pathway and PDA.
0.7 24/11/96 Further comments applied from PDA.
1.0 26/11/96 Further comments applied from POCL.
1.1 27/11/96 Further comments applied from PDA, BA and POCL
1.2 28/11/96 Incorporates revisions following review by Pathway, PDA,
POCL and BA
1.3 1/5/98 Brought up to date to recognise differences between
infrastructure and new product releases
2.0 29/03/99 Applied comments and approved ready for issue
21 21/05/99 Amended to reflect the current definition for Reference
Data changes.
2.2 22/06/99 Amended to reflect the signed Heads of Agreement (24"
May 1999)
2.3 25/06/99 Amended to reflect comments from Pathway review
3.0 28/06/99 Further comments applied and approved ready for issue

1.2 CHANGES FORECAST

None.

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 3 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

1.3 ABBREVIATIONS USED

The terms and abbreviations used in this document are those
defined in Schedule A01 of the Agreement.

2. INTRODUCTION

2.1 PURPOSE

This document describes Pathway’s policy for identifying and planning the
development of new Releases of Software and data. Pathway aims to do
this in a manner that is responsive to the business needs of POCL, and
which also conforms to the provisions of the Agreement. Overall, it aims
to:

a) establish the principles associated with releases of Pathway Services
in the context of the Agreement;

a) establish the principles for regular and on-going Releases of the
Pathway systems and Services; including infrastructure releases, new
product releases and maintenance releases:

a) establish the provisions to bring in changes to functionality and new
POCL Clients more quickly and frequently through Reference Data
provided by POCL and/or Pathway and to explain the main qualifiers
for doing this;

a) establish indicative timescales for the different types of Release in
order to put these into context.

The Pathway Release Policy is a key element in the process of
establishing business change, and provides a set of principles for the
timely and efficient introduction of new or improved products and
Services.

2.2 DEFINITION OF RELEASE

The Agreement defines a Release to be “a documented collection of
Software and/or data provided by the CONTRACTOR to deliver a
Service”, while the Requirement 476 makes it clear that the definition also
includes Reference Data. Throughout this document releases will be
referred to as either Software Releases or Reference Data Releases. It is
possible that both Software Releases and Reference Data Releases

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 4 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

require the co-ordinated implementation of other Infrastructure and
Supporting Services and it will be seen that this requirement leads to
further subdivisions of the definition of Releases later in the document.

2.3 IDENTIFICATION OF NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES

Releases are required to support changes of Service delivery in order to
implement business change. This business change will cover a wide
range of scale and complexity. For example:

i. adjustment to POCL trading variables, such as the price of a first class
stamp;

i. changes to business rules, e.g. whether or not to print a receipt for
Automated Payment Transactions;

i. amending the format or information provided for existing transaction
types;

i. franchising an existing outlet, or creating a new outlet;

i. implementing a new client for an existing service;

i. introducing a new client transaction or new product ;

i. re-engineering services within POCL’s own operations.

The time, risk and cost of implementing such business changes will vary,
depending upon the extent of:

a) systems development;

a) type of reference data changes;

a) changes to Infrastructure;

a) changes to support Services, such as Help Desk;
a) changes to documentation;

a) training requirements;

a) changes to marketing collateral;

a) network changes and telecommunications;

a) clients process re-engineering;

a) and so on.

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 5 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

All these changes must be taken into account in the process of defining
new business opportunities and setting priorities.

New business opportunities that require Releases will require a study to
prepare and qualify the business case for POCL. It is anticipated that
successful studies will result in an agreed Business Requirements
Definition document, and that this would form the basis of a formal change
request.

2.4 CHANGE CONTROL

A proposed change becomes contractually committed upon the
presentation of a Change Control Note (CCN) by Pathway and its
approval by POCL.

It is not required that Pathway should commit resources or expenditure to
the development and implementation of a change until the CCN has been
approved.

2.5 CONTRACTUAL AND FUTURE RELEASES

Release 1 was delivered in 3 phases: Release 1a (April 1997); Release
1b (May 1997); Release 1c (November 1997).

The CSR provides extended MIS functionality, introduces APS and
EPOSS functionality, and passes information to POCL’s interim TIP
system for accounting and reconciliation purposes. CSR forms the basis
for contractual acceptance, and will support the mounting of the Live Trial
and so the launching of National Rollout.

The CSR¢+ will provide extended APS functionality, encompassing Smart
Card functionality, and serves to sweep up the remaining outstanding
contractual commitments from the original agreements and the
introduction of LFS.

Further releases may be required on an ongoing basis. A number of new
products are already envisaged to extend the range of business
functionality available at the counter. There will, from time to time, be a
need to refresh or extend the supporting infrastructure and the ongoing
maintenance of the services will necessitate fault correction.

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 6 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

3. CLASSIFICATION OF RELEASES

Releases are classified as either Software Releases or Reference Data
Releases.

Software Releases fall into 3 main categories: Infrastructure Releases,
New Product Releases, and Maintenance Releases. In this section we
deal with Infrastructure Releases and New Product Releases.
Maintenance Releases are dealt with separately under section 5.

Similarly, Reference Data releases fall into a number of categories
according to the impact and indicative timescales for implementation. It is
emphasised that the classifications are not exhaustive and the timescales
are intended to be indicative only. The classifications may also be
reviewed in the light of experience.

3.1 SOFTWARE RELEASES

Software Releases result from a number of different requirements to
change or extend the Services.

This may be simply in order to maintain them in good working order,
addressing faults, and improving service levels. Such Maintenance
Releases are dealt with separately under section 5.

It may be that one or more additional areas of business functionality are
required, perhaps introducing an entirely new service. This would give
rise to a New Product Release.

The supporting infrastructure services will periodically need to be
updated to take account of the infrastructure to support new products ,
releases or workload changes. So, depending on the nature of the
changes required, different types of release are demanded. The impact of
such changes measured in terms of the time, effort and risk and cost of
implementing the changes will vary widely from one change to another ,
and these serve to characterise the different types of release.

Some changes will require extensive development effort and perhaps
involve co-ordinated changes to Infrastructure and support Services,
while others require only minor localised software development with little
or no need for changes to the infrastructure or support services. Some
can be implemented in a highly segregated manner, without disrupting too
many of the existing components, whilst others may be highly invasive. As

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 7 of 1
FUJ00232435
FUJ00232435

ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003

Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

3.1.1

a consequence some may require little in the way of re-integration effort,
whilst others may require a great deal. All will require extensive and
systematic testing of the areas concerned.

Between these extremes there is a continuum of the possible scale and
complexity of implementation of changes, but according to their essential
characteristics, all will fall into their respective categories of either New
Product Release or Infrastructure Release.

Because of the development, integration and testing lead times involved
with Infrastructure Releases, it is planned that a maximum of one a year
could be implemented. Several New Product Releases may be planned
each year, but in general releases should be spread out at least 3 months
apart, and avoiding the busy Christmas period where POCL outlets are
involved. Section 6 provides more information on timescales.

NEW PRODUCT RELEASES

The principal characteristics of the changes that form a New Product
Release are as follows:

a) Non-invasive changes, requiring little or no revision to the existing
components of the services already operating

a) May be implemented by the addition of discrete components,
perhaps entire new services, highly segregated from the existing
components, requiring little or no re-configuring of the existing
services and their interfaces

a) May be tested largely in isolation
a) Imposes little or no re-integration of existing services
a) Involves little or no migration from existing services

a) Can be implemented with a backward compatible path, allowing
gradual introduction across the network of POCL outlets, and as
such permits the operation of a limited pilot

a) Usually introduces significant new business functionality, and so
requires significant levels of user training, which implies a
requirement for a gradual training programme

a) Several can be developed in parallel by virtue of the segregation,
are typically of short duration, and can be implemented flexibly,
either as separate releases or combined as one release

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 8 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

3.1.2 INFRASTRUCTURE RELEASES

The principal characteristics of the changes that form an Infrastructure
Release are as follows:

a) Invasive changes, requiring significant revision to existing
components of the services already operating

a) Major infrastructure components refreshed, or significant re-
configuring of the existing services and their interfaces

a) Extensive service-wide regression testing required
a) Imposes significant levels of re-integration of existing services
a) May involve migration from existing service state

a) May introduce major enhancements to existing business
functionality

Cannot easily be developed in parallel because of the re-integration
aspects, are typically of long duration, and must be implemented as
planned and separate from other releases if possible. Because of the long
lead-times such changes are generally best grouped together as one big
release.

3.2 REFERENCE DATA RELEASES

POCL Reference data releases are governed by the Operational
Business Change processes where the required business change has
been defined and agreed in advance. Business changes that are
implemented through Reference Data changes that do not fall into the
definition of Operational Business Change, are governed by the normal
Change Control process as described in this document.

The purpose of Operational Business Change (OBC) is to predefine
common changes to the POCL business that occur often and require a
short implementation cycle e.g. changing the price of a bus ticket. By pre-
defining these changes the impacting cycle of the change is greatly
reduced and the implementation actions and time scales can be defined
in advance.

Operational Business Changes are initiated through the receipt of an
OBC request form and Reference Data files, as defined in the process
documents.

Reference Data Releases (under OBC) are broken down into more
detailed change types according to the impact and indicative timescales

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 9 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

for implementation. The change types are documented in the "ICL
Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operation Business Change -
Product" document. The interface agreement identifies specific types of
business change in advance so that their characteristics (e.g. timescales,
dependencies and responsibilities) can be understood by POCL when
managing their business. These would be to support, for example,
negotiation with clients and service management processes.

The broad categories of change type for Operational Business Change
are:

« Outlet Advanced - requires additional activity from ICL Pathway
e.g. relocating an outlet

« Outlet Basic - Class 1 reference data change only e.g. change of
phone number

« Product Advanced - requires additional activity from ICL Pathway
e.g. creation of new buttons on the counter menu

« Product Basic - Class 1 reference data change only e.g. change to
the price of a bus ticket.

Class 1 Reference Data is reference data that has no additional impact on
the Horzion system, although verification of the new data by POCL is
required for High Risk changes.

4. DEFINITION OF RELEASE CONTENT

4.1 RELEASE CONTROL & CONTENT

The Requirement and Solution 476 refers to the testing, control and
approval of Releases while the testing of Releases is described in
Pathway’s testing strategies and plans.

The content of a Release is determined through appropriate
documentation baselined by one or more CCNs that shall be approved
prior to a predetermined cut-off date for each Release. The purpose of
this cut-off date is to ensure that the changes required in each Release
are fully defined in time for the start of detailed design, development and
testing. After the cut-off date changes may only be introduced under
Change Control.

Requirement 476 requires POCL’s approval (such approval not being

unreasonably withheld) to the:
© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 10 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

e contents of any release

e upgrade path for any release

e timing of the distribution of any release
e timing of the activation of any release

The definition of release content for any specific Release, and the
development of any more detailed specifications, will need to take into
account, amongst other things, the business priorities of the business
changes in that Release and the alignment with associated Authority and
Client systems. Processes for release content definition are to be
developed to address such issues.

Processes will also be defined to address the co-ordinated development,
trialing and introduction of Releases where these need to be aligned with
POCL system releases e.g. TIP.

4.2 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES

Schedule A05 allows that if Pathway considers that any change is
necessary in order for it to comply with its obligations under the
Agreement and there is insufficient time to comply with the procedures
then Pathway shall be entitled to proceed with such change, provided that
it shall as soon as practicable provide POCL with a CCN for retrospective
change. Such change shall be subject to the procedures described in
Schedule AOS, and if POCL, acting reasonably, do not agree to such
change, such change shall be invalid and Pathway shall at its own
expense promptly take all steps necessary to reverse and remove the
effects of such change.

5. MAINTENANCE RELEASES

From time to time there will be a need for Releases of new Software and
data in order to remove faults or to improve Service Levels without
changing business functionality or business data. Such Releases are
called Maintenance Releases.

Maintenance Releases will range in scope from very minor Releases
which require little regression testing to major Releases that may require
full Regression testing and the recalibration of SLA timings. The
requirement for testing will be determined by reference to assessed
technical and operational impacts for each overall Release and notified to
POCL. Maintenance Releases shall be planned and implemented under

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 11 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

Pathway’s management control.

Minor maintenance releases that are designed solely to rectify faults
reported to ICL Pathway through the incident and problem management
process and that result in no associated changes to designed system
functionality, process, procedure, training or documentation (bug fixes),
will be applied to the system as soon as they have been authorised by
ICL Pathway Customer Service Release Management. POCL Business
Service Management will be notified that such releases have been
applied at the regular Horizon Service Review Forum meetings and this
shall be documented in the Horizon Service Review Book.

All other Maintenance Releases shall be subject to the Change Control
procedure; and the Emergency Change procedure (Paragraph 4.2 above)
shall be invoked only when immediate action is needed.

6. RELEASE SCHEDULE

6.1 SOFTWARE RELEASES

Pathway plans to implement approved changes in one or more Software
Releases each year, disregarding those covered under Maintenance
Releases (section 5) and Emergency Procedures (section 4).

In scheduling these releases a number of factors need to be considered.

Due to the long lead-times involved in Infrastructure Releases, largely
stemming from the need to perform extensive re-integration, it is
impractical to plan for more than one Infrastructure Release in a twelve
month period.

Whatever the release type concerned, implementation periods need to be
spread out to avoid conflict. The critical interval can be judged from the
experience of other large service contracts. Experience dictates that they
should be at least 3 months apart to achieve the optimum balance
between the business imperative to introduce new functionality and the
tisk of adverse impact on Service Levels resulting from excessive rates of
change.

Implementations involving the POCL outlets should be planned to avoid
their busy Christmas period wherever possible.

New Product Releases, and some Infrastructure Releases will involve a
phased implementation period, with user training activities and possibly

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 12 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

the running of a Pilot. These post go-live activities need to be scheduled
in and taken into consideration regarding the scheduling of subsequent
releases.

Under certain circumstances it may be advantageous to all parties to
cluster a number of releases together into a single implementation period.
This is particularly relevant to New Product Releases. The frequency of
Releases will be reviewed in line with experience gained during live
operation. The current view is that between 2 and 3 releases are likely
each year, comprising one Infrastructure release and one or two New
Product Releases. (These may be combined releases, depending on the
size and the complexity of each.)

The relationship between the release definition activities and the ultimate
implementation of the release is illustrated below:

Release 'n’

3 months 9 months r
oe =" ~e Time —_—
RCD
Release n
baselined

Construct
Release 'n'
Content Definition

Fig 6.1 - Release Planning

Changes which have been approved within the Validity Period of the
associated CCN will be included within the Release Contents Definition
for the Release stated. Three months are allowed for the approval of each
Release Contents Definition which is then baselined while the Release is
implemented. Thus in steady state, there will be at any time, one live
Release (Release “n”) and two new Releases ( n+1 and n+2) at different
stages of design and implementation.

The table below illustrates a possible timetable for, say, a combined

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 13 of 1
FUJ00232435

FUJ00232435
ICL Pathway PATHWAY RELEASE POLICY Ref: PA/STR/003
Version: 3.0
COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Date: 28/06/99

release comprising maybe 2 New Product Releases delivered in the
Autumn, then avoiding the Christmas period, and then an Infrastructure
Release encompassing some functional enhancements, delivered in the
following Spring.

Release I Design Developme I Test & Implement I Release

Contents nt Integration

Baseline

d

1 January I 1 Jan - 1 Feb - 1 Apr - 1 Sep - 1 October
28 Feb 31 May 30 Sep 30 Nov

1 July 4 July - 1 Aug - 1 Nov - 1 Mar - 1 April
31 July 31 Oct 28 Feb 31 May

Fig 6.2 - Release Timetable

In constructing the illustrative timetable shown above, Pathway has
assumed that the Test & Integration period will encompass a period of
one month (not exclusive) within which POCL undertake any Joint testing
of the Release that may be required. It is anticipated that the testing and
acceptance processes after the initial releases will be rationalised by
mutual agreement.

For the avoidance of doubt, if an element of the Services under test fails
its testing criteria and it is decided by POCL and Pathway to withdraw it in
order to maintain Release timescales, then that failed element will be
included in the next Release unless otherwise agreed.

6.2 REFERENCE DATA DISTRIBUTION

Indicative timescales for the implementation of the different classes
of Reference Data Release are provided in document "ICL
Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for Operation Business
Change - Product".

© 1999 ICL Pathway Ltd

COMPANY IN CONFIDENCE Page 14 of 1
