FUJ00225726
FUJ00225726

From: Ed.J.Montaguel_
Sent: Tue 28/09/2010 10:
To: Bains Rajbinderf.
Subject: RE: Statement

Thank you Raj.

Ed

From: Bains Rajbinder I
Sent: 28 September 2010 11
To: Montague Ed J
Subject: RE: Statement

Hi Ed,
Apologies for not getting back to you yesterday.
Yes I will work on getting this statement across to you.

Many Thanks,
Raj

RAJ BAINS

Fujitsu Services
4th
Tel:
E-mail: rajbinder bains¢
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

I. Berkshire. RG12 8SN

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 22, Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been
intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free

From: Ed.J.Montague¢
Sent: 25 September 20
To: Bains Rajbinder
Subject: Statement

Dear Rajbinder,

Firstly, many thanks for producing the further disc with the ARQ data for the Preston Road Post Office.

Could I please trouble you to provide a statement exhibiting the CD that you sent through?

I can provide a draft statement and send it by email to you unless you have a corporate document that can be
used. Penny Thomas provided one such statement previously for this case. It briefly documents your role, the
data that you extracted and recording that you exhibit the disc as RB/1.

Any problems - please call me (mobile is best)

Many thanks

Ed
FUJ00225726
FUJ00225726

Edward MONTAGUE
Detective Constable
Directorate of Professional Standards - Intelligence Management Unit

Met Phone {GRO} I Telephone
Email edward j.montague!
Address Room 239, Jubilee House, 230-232 Putney Bridge Road, London, SW15 2PD

In accordance with the Freedom Of Information Act - This e-mail is restricted and intended solely for the use of the individual to whom it
is addressed. Any opinions contained in this message are those of the author and are not given or endorsed by the Metropolitan Police
Service unless otherwise ly indicated in this message and the authority of the author to so bind the Metropolitan Police Service
entity referred to is duly verified.

If you are not the intended recipient, be advised that you have received this email in error and that any use, dissemination, forwarding,
printing, or copying of this email is strictly prohibited

TESS SSIS SII OHSS SS IRI IRI ORICRICRIOKIOKIOR IO IOR ICICI RIOR ROK IGR II IA RAO AG AG ACK AOR
It is the policy of the MPS that:

MPS personnel (or agents working on behalf of the MPS) must not use

MPS systems to author, transmit or store documents such as electronic mail (e-mail) messages or
attachments:

* containing racist, homophobic, transphobic,sexist, defamatory, offensive, illegal or otherwise
inappropriate material;

* containing material requiring a protective marking higher than
RESTRICTED, (and not higher than NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED across the internet) without
the use of approved encryption;

* containing personal data for use other than in accordance with
the notification(s) under the Data Protection Act, 1998 of the
system(s) from which the data originates.

* This Email message has been scanned for viruses and contents.
2 Re 2 ae 2k ae 2c 2k 2K oe 2 2 ae 2k 2 2c 28 22k 28 ae 2k ae 2c 2k 2 2 2k 2 2k fe 2k ae ofc 2k 2c 2 fe oe ak 2k coke 2 2c 2 eof ae ofc ak fe akc ak ake ac 2k ae ok ake

1H eR A AR Re A AR AR AR A A AR A AO RS A AG AR AG AG OR AR Re CO RR A oo Co a oR ae

It is the policy of the MPS that:

MPS personnel (or agents working on behalf of the MPS) must not use

MPS systems to author, transmit or store documents such as electronic mail (e-mail) messages or attachments:

* containing racist, homophobic, transphobic,sexist, defamatory, offensive, illegal or otherwise inappropriate
material;

* containing material requiring a protective marking higher than
RESTRICTED, (and not higher than NOT PROTECTIVELY MARKED across the internet) without the
use of approved encryption;

* containing personal data for use other than in accordance with
the notification(s) under the Data Protection Act, 1998 of the
system(s) from which the data originates.

* This Email message has been scanned for viruses and contents.
2H eRe 2 Re Re Re Fe fe fe Re 2 2k Fe 2 fe Re 2 Re Re 2 eof 22 2 oR Re 2 2k ae of fe 2k oR 2k Re 2k eof fe 2k fe oR a a ake ak ake
