FUJ00122102
FUJ00122102

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 08/09/2005 08:54:20

To: Thomas Penny [/o=ICL/ou=UKSouth FELO1/cn=Recipients/cn=ThomasP]
Subject: RE: R. vs. Teja - Can you help?

Attachments: Penny_OBCS.doc

Penny,
I’ ve put together what I can in the attached note.

Does that cover what you need? If you need anything clarified, then please let me know. I’ m in
Bracknell today and tomorrow.

Regards
Gareth

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be
privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or
that it is virus-free.

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Applications TDA

Post Office Account

Fujitsu Services
Lovelace Road,

Tel:

Mobile: cores

email: Gareth.

Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered office 26, Finsbury Square, London,
—EC2A 1SL

ao--- Original Message-----

: Thomas Penny

07 September 2005 09:58

To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Subject: FW: R. vs. Teja - Can you help?

Hi Gareth

we have received the attached from Post Office. I have spoken to Pete Sewell to see how we could best
fill the request, especially with the huge depletion of POA engineers who would normally help us, and we
both agreed you were the best first port of call.

Please, could you review the request and (a) see if you can help at all and (b) advise who else I could
best call on for help.

The next 'meeting'’ at court is scheduled for Tuesday, 13 September and Post Office have asked if we could
respond by close of play Friday this week.

Thanks for your help.

Kind regards
Penny

Subject: FW

All
Please see the attached list of questions posed by defence solicitors in a
case being led by the DWP. Are you able to provide the answers, which may
well be needed in the form of a witness statement.

I will ring later to discuss further.

(See attached file: Teja_PO_Qs. pdf)

Regards

Graham

Casework Manager
Post Office Ltd Investigation Team

PO BOX 1, CROYDON, CR9 1WN
Postline: N/A,..STR.Phone:

N/A, Mobex:
External Email

graham.c.war

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,

disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then

delete this email from your system.
JHE Ian eini rin inini diol nid iniiinien iin ilieienioiiliiniiniinianiiairaaamiaie

FUJ00122102
FUJ00122102
