FUJ00155699
FUJ00155699

From: Pinder Brian[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PINDERB]
Sent: Wed 09/11/2005 3:06:07 PM (UTC)
To: Jenkins Gareth GIf.

Ce: Jackson Gill M
Subject: I RE: WS for Rvs Teja
Gareth ci Gill

Thanks for that, its very helpful and the wording issues could easily be changed by Neneh, subject to your approval of course.

History

To date we have never been called to provide any technical evidence, as the courts are mostly interested in only the data, how
it was recorded and by whom and who is presenting it to the court (usuallyPenny or Neneh). They are subject to questioning on
those issues alone and can happily respond, however this particular statement is nothing to do with particular incriminating data,
the recording or presentation of that data to a court, it's more on the technical processes, which is not in issue, but required for
information. Hopefully the explanation (as detailled in the statement) which by the way has been pre-emptied by PO is all that will
be required and no questions will be forthcoming.

Perhaps we can review this on Friday pending the outcome / decisions made after I have provided a little more background
detais! to Gill.

Thanks again

Brian Pinder
Security, Manager

From: Jenkins Gareth GI

Sent: 07 November 2005 10:05
To: Pinder Brian

Ce: Jackson Gill M

Subject: RE: WS for Rvs Teja

Brian,
I've had a read through the statement.

I'm happy about everything in the statement with 3 exceptions:

1. The Opening Paragraph will clearly need to be changed if I am to sign it (trivial!)

2. The paragraph on page 2 about weekly cash accounts being sent to Chesterfield are no longer true, but
would have been true at the time of the case (since OBCS was withdrawn before the changes were made!)
Minor rewording can easily fix that.

3. The highlighted section on pages 5 and 6 concerning the network. It seems reasonable, but I’m not
particularly familiar with the details of the network layer. In particular I’ve no idea about how we share the
Energis Network with other users or the encryption we use at the Network layer. Is this stuff relevant to this
case? Also the numbers of VSAT branches are changing (though this is again probably irrelevant to this
statement)

Also, as I mentioned the other day, I’m not sure what the situation is in respect to my spending time on this sort of
thing. I've been happy to help Penny and Neneh when I can on the basis that it has usually been no more that an hour
or so at a time. Potentially this could be a lot more and so this may need agreeing with my Management (hence I’ve
copied this to Gill) and Time Booking codes etc arranged.
FUJ00155699
FUJ00155699

What next?
Regards

Gareth

This e-mail is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that this e-mail
has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer

Applications TDA
Post Office Account

Fujitsu Services
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, Berkshire, RG12 8SN

Tel: Internal:

Mobile: Internal: __GRO_
email: E

Web:

Fujitsu Services Limited, Registered in England no 96056, Registered Office 26, Finsbury Square, London, EC2A 1SL

From: Pinder Brian

Sent: 04 November 2005 08:31
To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: FW: WS for Rvs Teja

Gareth

Please find attached Statement of Witness as discussed.
Neneh has already signed the statement as requested by Graham W but has expressed concerns hence my
coming to see you.

I have asked Neneh to highlight any areas she is not comfortable with i.e. maybe having to explain in some
detail in court.

Is it possible you could have a look at the statement and advise if you could sign up to this statement or
perhaps an alternative would be to spearate the statement out into two which you and Neneh could each agree
to sign up to.

This does seem to be a one off type of statement and not sure if it will ever be brought to court but if it is
Neneh is a little concerned what she might be expected to know/understand/explain should the need arise.

Manyh thanks for your assistance in this.
Kind Regds

Brian Pinder
Security Manager

