Thomas Penny

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Attachments:

2

9c15.misra - 2nd Eleanor Nixon
interim techn... Statement.rtf (4...

john.longman:

01 February 2010 16:7

GRO I

Thomas Penny

West Byfleet

9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report 19.11.09.doc; Eleanor Nixon

Statement.rtf;

pic31632.jpg

pic31632.jpg (73
KB)

Penny

I

FUJ00152896
FUJ00152896

At a pre court hearing today the judge has ordered that all the defence requests for

further information be answered by 4pm on Monday 8th February.

Our solicitor in the case has asked that Gareth's statement is completed by Wednesday

of this week so that he and our barrister can examine the statement.

reth's statement needs to cover the following four points.

1. Our defence barrister has asked for all of Gareth's replies in
relation to the Defences 2nd Interim Report

witness statement.

(See attached file:
19.11.09.doc)

2) My barrister telephoned me yesterday evening and requested that I find

9c15.misra ~ 2nd interim technical expert's report

(see attachment below) to be produced as a
I would suggest that the question from the defence is reproduced
and then Gareth's replies are recorded immediately after for clarity purposes.

out any information that Fujitsu may hold in relation to, an office called Callender
Square in Falkirk. Apparently, Anne Chambers a Systems Specialist employed by Fujitsu
was cross examined and it is said that she had full knowledge of an error in the
Horizon system at this Post Office. \

Our barrister would like Gareth to
issue Anne Chambers raised at court

3) When Gareth completes his statement

known problems with the Horizon system that Fujitsu are aware of.

f none could this be clarified in the statement.

deal with this matter and expand upon whatever
within his witness statement.

could he also mention whether there are any

4) Could Gareth read the statement from Eleanor Nixon attached below and respond in 5

his statement to the points raised by Eleanor Nixon about Horizon.

(See attached file:

Eleanor Nixon Statement.rtf)

In addition our barrister would like to speak to Gareth directly and would be grateful
if in the first instance whether Gareth could either send him his contact details or
Our. bi rrister is called Warwi ck Tatford and his e-mail

give him a call on his mobil:
address is warwicktatfordi

(Embedded image moved to file:

FEI III II III GIGI SIS ISI GIGI I IIIS CII III I ICSI SII II SOI I I III II EEE

pic31632. jpg)

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number

4138203 registered office 3rd Floor,

100 Victoria Embankment,

London,

EC4Y OHO

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only.

If you are not the named recipient,

distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this
email from your system.

you must not use,

disclose,

reproduce,

copy or
