FUJ00172048

FUJ00172048
From: Deaton Mike[/O=-EXCHANGE/OU=ADMINGROUP1/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=DEATONM]
Sent: Fri 02/12/2011 10:22:08 AM (UTC)
To: Godeseth TorsteinI

} Jenkins Gareth

Ce: 4 ; Long Stephenf"

Subject: CONFIDENTIAL: Horizon OnLine Integrity Testing: Proposal

Attachment: KPMG Proposal_HNG-x Data Integrity Assessment vD0034(011211).pdf
Gents,

Please find attached the KPMG response and proposal to our integrity assessment request.
Could I please ask you to review the document in detail with a view to:

1. Ensuring that the desired objectives will be achieved
2. To highlight any areas where that you think may have been overcooked and can be managed
without

I will organise a session for us next week to capture your findings. Please make every effort to attend.

Please do not share this document with anyone else.

Gavin & Stephen —I will aim to consolidate this assessment before the end of next week to provide you with the
team’s recommendation.

FYI, I have also approached our new CPO, Andrew Croston, to provide any guidance as to how we should approach

this.

Regards,

Mike Deaton
Change & Operations Director
Business Operations

Fujitsu

Email mike.deatont co)
Web: http://uk. fujitsu.

A Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jocson, Erviny.
Sent: 01 December
To: Deaton Mike
Cc: Starnes, Chris
Subject: RE: Horizon OnLine Integrity Testing: Proposal

Hi Mike,

As committed please find attached our draft proposal for your comment/approval, which is in response to your revised
FUJ00172048
FUJ00172048

ToR scope document issued to us on the 25" Nov 2011.
Our approach factors in your feedback below.
Please contact me should you have any questions.

My best,
Ervin

Ervin Jocson
Director

KPMG IT Advisory
Forensics & Risk Consulting
15 Canada Square

London

E14 5GL

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail
Latest KPMG insights and research
Fraud Barometer January 2011: Click here to read KPMG's latest Fraud Barometer results.

Consumers and Convergence IV: Read KPMG's latest research into internet and mobile trends. Visit
www.KPMG.co.uk/convergence

From: Deaton Mike!____
Sent: 01 December 2011 14:57

To: Jocson, Ervin

Cc: Rahman, Mohammed R (UK); Starnes, Chris; Edge, Lee; Morjaria, Nishad; Howard Ian; Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: RE: Horizon OnLine Integrity Testing

Ervin,
Apologies for the delay in getting back to you.

We need KPMG to define a set of scenarios taking enough to demonstrate robustness of the overall process.
This may be more than the scenarios that we have defined, but need KPMG to make this recommendation

The objective is to audit the integrity of the overall basket process. Transaction audits should not be
necessary to achieve this.

Regards,

Mike
FUJ00172048

FUJ00172048

Mike Deaton
Change & Operations Director
Business Operations

Fujitsu
Fujitsu, 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW__
Mobile: £7 Internally” j

Email mike.deator, GRO. j
Web: http://uk.fujitsu.com

= Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Jocson, Ervi
Sent: 28 November 2011 10:14

To: Deaton Mike

Cc: Rahman, Mohammed R (UK); Starnes, Chris; Edge, Lee; Morjaria, Nishad
Subject: RE: Horizon OnLine Integrity Testing

HI Mike,

I hope you had a nice weekend. Just as an update - We're aiming to get the proposal back to you by this
Thursday for your review.

We have a few questions in relation to your updated scoping document:

e Section 1.2 — Scope. In shaping our approach, we will define an agreed-upon proceedure for
the audit. To help guide and size the audit, will Fujitsu have a mimimun or maximum number

of prescirbed transaction types to be tested?

¢ — Section 1.3 - Deliverables: For clarity, Fujitsu have specified the delivery of an ‘ audit report’ that

may be submitted in court to demonstrate adequacy of the controls in place. As discussed at our
scoping meeting, we can provide litigation support, particularly of the nature in the scope of your
requirements. However as external auditors we are restricted from providing expert witness servi
particularly where there is a quantum aspect that results in us actually self auditing such material
values through the external audit.

ices,

e Section 3.0 —for clarity, we interpret these scenarios as the ‘test scenarios’ that may occur

stand-alone or in combinations, in which transaction audits need to be validated against.
this correct?

Is

In our proposal response we will outline an approach in terms of two iterations of deliverables. This will enable
us to expedite the initial findings audit report for Fujitsu ‘ONLY’ review and action. With the second iteration

reflecting your comments/feedback that will be subject to final risk review by KPMG such that the final rel
can be relied-upon.

Many thanks,
Ervin

Ervin Jocson
Director

KPMG IT Advisory
Forensics & Risk Consulting
15 Canada Square

London

E145GL

lease
FUJ00172048
FUJ00172048

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

Latest KPMG insights and research
Fraud Barometer January 2011: Click here to read KPMG's latest Fraud Barometer results.
Consumers and Convergence IV: Read KPMG’s latest research into internet and mobile trends.
Visit www.KPMG.co.uk/convergence

From: Deaton Mike:
Sent: 25 November 2011 09:51

To: Jocson, Ervin

Subject: Horizon OnLine Integrity Testing

Ervin,

Please find attached our revised scoping document for your review. I trust this covers
everything you need, but please call out if you believe there is anything missing.

I have asked Tim Healy to organise countersignature to the NDA and will have this across to
you early next week.

Do you have any view of timescales as to when you think you might provide your proposal,

Regards,

Mike Deaton
Change & Operations Director
Business Operations

Fujitsu
Fujitsu, 22 Baker Street, London, W1U 3BW
Mobile:
Email
Web: http://uk. fujitst

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

This email has been sent from KPMG LLP, a UK limited liability
partnership (which is a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP),

from KPMG Europe LLP, from one of the companies within KPMG LLPs
control (which include KPMG Audit Plc,

KPMG United Kingdom Plc and KPMG UK Limited) or from KPMG Resource
Centre Private Limited, together "KPMG".
FUJ00172048
FUJ00172048

KPMG Europe LLP does not provide services to clients. None of KPMG
Europe LLPs subsidiaries have any authority to obligate

or bind KPMG Europe LLP. This email is confidential and may be
legally privileged. It is intended solely for the addressee.

Access to this email by anyone else is unauthorised. If you are not
the addressee or an intended recipient or have not

agreed with us the terms on which you are receiving this email any
disclosure, copying, distribution or any action

taken or omitted to be taken in reliance on the contents of this
email or its attachments, is at your own risk,prohibited

and may be unlawful, and to the fullest extent permitted by law KPMG
accepts no responsibility or liability to you.

When addressed to our clients any opinions or advice contained in
this email or its attachments are subject to the terms and
conditions expressed in the governing KPMG client engagement letter.
Anything in this email or its attachments which

does not relate to KPMG's official business is neither given nor
endorsed by KPMG.

KPMG Europe LLP, registered in England No 0C324045
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG United Kingdom PLC, registered in England No 03513178
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG UK Limited, registered in England No 3580549
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG LLP, registered in England No 0C301540
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

KPMG Audit Plc, registered in England No 3110745

Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS)
Limited, or from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence
and may be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended
or that it is virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London
WI1U 3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London
WI1U 3BW.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office
Solihull Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
