NFSP00000061
NFSP00000061

CIRCULATION: . NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL FOR AGENDA DISCUSSION PC NW 06 01

i

MS/LW PC NW 06 01

25 February 2010

CIRCULATION: NATIONAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL

Dear Executive Officer
RE: HORIZON ON-LINE, PILOT REVIEW

As you know we are in the initial pilot stages of Horizon On-line and as you would
expect we have been closely monitoring experience and feeding back issues
requiring further investigation and resolution. The two Executive Officers on the
Horizon On-line tripartite working group have additionally fed into this process (one is
currently a pilot office).

Post Office Limited have now taken a decision to have an early review of the pilot
roll-out so far and I enclose for your information a summary of the feedback and the
current position. We will continue to monitor the situation closely and will have
regular dialogue with the Horizon On-line programme team, one of whom will attend
the next Executive Council meeting.

Yours sincerely

MARILYN STODDART
Assistant General Secreta:

Encl.

NFSP00000061
NFSP00000061

Marilyn Stoddart

( nu

ent:

To: Marilyn Stoddart
Subject: Horizon Online
Marilyn

As discussed, the info below is a summary of our current position and feedback.
Horizon Online

The new Horizon Online system is currently live in44)branches as at 24th February. However a decision was taken
yesterday to delay the migration of the next 100 branches and take a minimum of a week's break to review the pilot to
date. This week's review was always planned albeit after the next 100 branches.
@ foalOns dg fo 02

The decision to delay the next batch of branches was taken after all’66 branches that were live on Monday
experienced a problem resulting in them not being able to use the system for part of Monday moming and a higher
number of screen freezes / system problems than was forecast, especially over the last couple of days. Whilst I am
pleased to confirm that the problem on Monday morning has been fixed and actions put in place to prevent a
tr "rence, we have made the decision to introduce the pilot review early on the back of feedback about the screen

tes and some other items raised over the last few days.

We have already taken the opportunity to speak with a number of individuals who have been using Horizon Online for
at least a few days to find out what they liked and disliked about the new system. Screen freezes were rated as the
number one thing that wasn't liked along with the quality of support and guidance provided through the Helpdesk. A
number of other areas were commented on but out of 42 respondents no other area attracted more than 3 responses.
On the positive side, respondents said they liked the speed of the new system, the ease of carrying out certain
activities such as balancing and the fact that transactions usually involve less screens. A prominent positive was also
the new Postal Services application.

We have always said we will work to ensure the quality is right - hence the pilot approach - rather than rush this new
system out. This is the reason we will not migrate any additional branches until we can see a clear improvement to the
areas identified above. The one downside of this is that we had to cancel migrations and we fully appreciate the
inconvenience this can cause and we extend our apologies to anyone inconvenienced. We would like to assure you
and your members that we will get these issues resolved and re-start the migrations as soon as possible.

Mark Burley

Programme Manager HNG
Post Office Ltd

gations

Sad Floor

148 Oid Street

London

EC1V SHQ

Postline: Mobex

areett

Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and Wales registered number
4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. !f you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.
If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ate

ono

