NFSP00000409
NFSP00000409

Post Office Consulting

Christmas Horizon Research Report

January 2000

Lorna Green

THE POST OFFICE
specialist consultancy from people

who know the business
Counters Business Consultancy
Post Office Consulting

NFSP00000409
NFSP00000409

1. Summary
1.1 Introduction

This report gives the results of 330 telephone interviews with staff and agents
whose offices have taken part in the Horizon roll in the autumn of 1999, In
these interviews they were asked their opinion on different aspects of the
Horizon system, the various types of support available (including manuals
and helpdesks) and their overall satisfaction with the automation programme.

1.2 Results and Conclusions

Results on almost all aspects of Horizon are mixed. Some staff and sub
postmasters are getting to grips with the system and are happy and satisfied
whilst others are struggling and continuously having problems. There are no
obvious patterns by office type, IP area, number of counter positions or the
length of time since migration.

However, where comparisons have been possible, these results are more
favourable than the results from the live trial research last June. This
improvement in results indicates that lessons have been learnt from the live
trial and that the remedial action taken has improved perception of several
aspects of Horizon. However, the post office should not rest on its laurels and
there is still room for further improvement.

The main message coming through is that they are not getting enough !
training. They are mainly happy with what the one and a half days they I
received, but the training on balancing is not Jong enough for their needs.

This has knock on effects in other areas where greater support as they then
lack confidence when doing their subsequent balances and require more
support from their HESO and RNM. Also when asked about the user guide
and helpdesks there is a feeling that if they had been trained adequately
problems with these support areas would not be such an issue.

The other area for concern is the helpdesks. There is confusion over which
number to call, which is compounded by them being passed back and forth
between helpdesks. There is a problem getting through to the Horizon system
helpdesk in particular and the service from both appears to be lacking in
terms of consistency and level of knowledge.

c:\temp\xmas2.doc 1

NFSP00000409
NFSP00000409

1.3 Recommendation

Itis strongly recommended that the length of time allocated to balancing in
the training course is extended, since there is anecdotal evidence to suggest
that economising at this stage causes problems further down the line in terms
of the additional support required.

Work is also under way to measure the level of service given by the helpdesks
so that improvements can be made.

c:\temp\xmas2,.doc 2

