POL00097845
POL00097845

Message

From: Jenkins Gareth GIL... GRO _l

Sent: 26/03/2013 16:42:47

To: Andrew Winn [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Andrew. f.winn8864769a-2044-44b3-b534-a05fdcc665d1]

ce: Rodric Williams [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP

(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Rodric Williamse9c114f4-b03f-4595-b082-ce89be5c79d47b]; Ivan
Swepson [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP (FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=Ivan
Swepsona0633aa9-6e0f-4758-a1a2-9cb6609d6bb64df]
Subject: RE: SROO1 Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider Circulation
Attachments: SROO1 Response v0.1.docx

SRO01 Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Hi Andy

We have been asked by Second Sight Support Services Limited to respond to an allegation that Horizon reverses
transactions without alerting the branch.

As you are aware, allegations that the Horizon system is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are
inadequate have been, and continue to be, the subject of legal challenges. We must therefore assume that the parties
who want to pursue these allegations will look to our response to advance their allegations, including through the
Courts. We will therefore be obtaining legal advice on the response before it is finalised and sent to Second Sight to
ensure it fairly represents our position and does not prejudice our ability to advance that position before the Courts.

As the provider of the Horizon system which Post Office Limited uses, it is in the interests of both Fujitsu and Post Office
Limited to ensure that the response to this allegation is accurate and fair. We would therefore like you to comment on
our draft response (copy attached) before we provide it to our solicitors.

I have now completed my first draft (attached). Please note that I am still getting a technical and legal check carried out
on this document within Fujitsu, but thought it would be useful to get your view as to the scope and approach of the
report. I’ve included your info from below. Hopefully that is also OK.

I'd appreciate any feedback. I probably won’t be able to respond until at least next Tuesday as I am in meetings
tomorrow and on leave on Thursday this week.

Regards

Gereth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

http://uk.fujitsu.com

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

POL-0097428
POL00097845
POL00097845

wa Please consider the envirenment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Andrew Winn [mailto:
Sent: 25 March 2013 13:26
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Rodric Williams; Rod Ismay; Alison Bolsover

Subject: SRO01 Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

SRO01 Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Hi Gareth

We have been asked by Second Sight Support Services Limited to respond to an allegation that Horizon reverses
transactions without alerting the branch.

As you are aware, allegations that the Horizon system is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are
inadequate have been, and continue to be, the subject of legal challenges. We must therefore assume that the parties
who want to pursue these allegations will look to our response to advance their allegations, including through the
Courts. We will therefore be obtaining legal advice on the response before it is finalised and sent to Second Sight to
ensure it fairly represents our position and does not prejudice our ability to advance that position before the Courts.

As the provider of the Horizon system which Post Office Limited uses, it is in the interests of both Fujitsu and Post Office
Limited to ensure that the response to this allegation is accurate and fair. We would therefore like you to comment on
our draft response (copy attached) before we provide it to our solicitors. We would be grateful to receive this by 28"
March 2013.

I need to respond to the 2"? bullet under second sight’s preliminary conclusions.

“The decision by P&BA not to examine the Horizon detailed transaction data on cost grounds delayed or denied the
SPMR the opportunity to process the transactions correctly or understand what happened.”

e Under the terms of the current contract with Fujitsu Post Office Ltd are entitled to request Fujitsu to
provide detailed branch historical transactional data. The number of requests that can be actioned within a
month without additional charge is capped at (Gareth can you confirm the current number? Dave is on
leave this month)

e The Security team of Post Office Ltd manage this process. Access to this data is intended to support
specific Security investigations which may ultimately require this data to be presented before a court of law.

e — Finance Service Centre is able to request such data but has no budget to fund this should a request breach
the cap.

e Such a request would inevitably create a delay in providing the branch with a meaningful reply.

e Finance Service Centre was able to informally determine from Fujitsu why there was a break of continuity in

the transaction session numbers as raised by Mr Armstrong.

Finance Service Centre believed they had an adequate understanding of the event to provide a response to
the points made in the letter received:-

There was no reversal carried out in branch.

A loss of connectivity caused the problem.
It is understandable that the branch may have got confused.

The lack of receipt indicates that the bill had not been paid.

There is no actual financial loss to the branch.

There was no response to the letter sent on 14‘ December 2012 to suggest the response had not

addressed the concerns raised.

eRe Ne

POL-0097428
POL00097845
POL00097845

e  Atransaction correction had already been issued to correct the transaction before the letter was sent to
the Relationship Manager so the decision did not prevent “the opportunity to process the transactions
correctly.”

e Finance Service Centre does not have access to transactional information to evidence a loss of connectivity
or the generation of disconnected session receipts. It is acknowledged that such visibility would enable a
more complete response to be available under business as usual enquiries of this nature.

Andy

Andy Winn Relationship Manager

} Finance Service Centre, 1 Future Walk, Chesterfield $49 1 PF

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH III ISOS DDO IO IO JI OSI III DIOS SOIT AI IAT IIIA

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

POL-0097428
POL00097845
POL00097845

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U.
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0097428
