POL00070073
POL00070073

Page 1 of 2

Nicola McSherry

From: — Pinder Brian:_
Sent: 21 December 2006 1
To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1); graham.c.ward) GRO
Subject: Request for NT Events for Marine Drive

Stephen

Yes he would and we would obviously have no objections to such a visit, however (bad news) bearing in mind
the volume of data we hold covers all the PO Account, which is a vast amount of data, we might require some
prior notice to schedule this work in. In view of the size of the system and the volume of information it could
take some time to filter this particular information out.

I could investigate how long this might take to give you some idea to go on?

Regds Brian

From: Stephen Dilley:
Sent: 21 December 2006 1.
To: Pinder Brian

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)
Subject: RE: Request for NT Events for Marine Drive

Thanks Brian.

How would Mr Castleton be able to see the same that Anne saw? Would he need to visit
Fujitsu?

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

Sent: 21 December 2006 13:08

To: Stephen Dilley

Cc: Sewell Peter (FELO1)

Subject: FW: Request for NT Events for Marine Drive
Importance: High

Stephen

We have had a look at the data in the spreadsheet and can confirm that it is the archived version of
the data Ann checked in 2004, and which she referred to in evidence, but it is not the same actual
electronic document.

In court she referred to it as the system event log, because she was trying to distinguish it from
another log of 'user events' extracted from the message store.

29/12/2006
POL00070073
POL00070073

Page 2 of 2

A better name for them would be the ‘Tivoli event logs’.

2nd query

On investigation of the logs there was no evidence of any event storms or indeed any other problem

Only one query was highlighted as an issue and it was accompanied by a Powerhelp call and which
I believe has already been discussed.

I hope this answers your questions.
Kind Regds

Brian

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged
and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any
attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and
delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this
communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before
transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond
Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0C311430.

Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to
Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law
Society.

29/12/2006
