POL00298435
POL00298435

From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A5 1 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]

Sent: Wed 21/08/2013 10:
To:
Ce: _p (NFSP) EO BHAVNA
Bcc: Susan Crichton
Kevin Gillilandf,
Subject: Re: Glitch in Horizon

Pervez, you know me well enough: of course I will make sure we look into this properly for you.

Angela or one of her team will be in touch. Soon.
And, I am very sorry that the helpline responses are so unsatisfactory. Harry Clarke will look into asap.

Thank you for raising it.

Best wishes, Paula

Sent from my iPad

On 21 Aug 2013, at 22:02, "Pervez Nak

Paula

I hope you will understand my reason for sending this to you and not hold it against me as

I have never ever brought this issue to you but have informed our EO Bhavna Desai a few times
and she always said that Horizon is robust and there is no evidence to the contrary while our
General Secretary George Thomson has diplomatically not even answered my question, so!
thought that if I did make a complaint about it then the answer would have been the same as
from Bhavna hence I did not pursue it further despite the fact that since the advent of Horizon I
have lost a lot of money with losses on a weekly basis that I kept on making good and
subsidizing POL in the process. I feel that some subpostmasters have been made the sacrificial
lamb.

I have been running the Post Office for a very long time and just like other subpostmasters I try
to be extra careful with my work as the losses affect my pocket and being an Accountant by
profession I cannot be that bad with figures.

After I balance on a Wednesday and make good cash which is usually within £100 and then roll
POL00298435

POL00298435

over hoping that things will be hunky dory next week but when the balance is done on Thursday
closing time there is invariably a cash loss which then carries on till the end of the week; this
leads to suspicion of staff and at times even begin to doubt myself. As a rule we put all the
change from shop takings in the Post Office just to make sure that we do not have to suffer
losses each week. The worse thing is when staff are on holiday and I have to do things on my
own then also there is a cash loss which is mind boggling as no one else can be blamed for it.

Now that media has taken this up and its in the news I thought that I should bring this to your
notice and also the fact that this time I am hit harder than usual which is another good reason
to ask for your assistance.

I always do my daily cash declaration and get 100 per cent for it and even the mystery shopper
visit has classified me as good, and despite all that I balanced on Friday 9th August and had the
usual loss of £40 from Thursday but when I balanced on Saturday there was a cash shortage of
£2000 which was shocking for I had not been busy and only had my usual 3 depositors. Since
then I have gone through the entire post office and even checked all the bins but cannot trace
it. I have asked the depositors if a mistake has been made but their records tally with what they
deposited.

I still want to check it on the CCTV system but the password given by Romec engineer does not
work so I called Romec for help and was told that I should call the POL helpline as they deal with
CCTV systems, this I did and was told that its Romec who installed the system and are
responsible so again called Romec for assistance and was rudely told that they cannot help
despite me informing them that POL helpline has told me that they are responsible.

I have sent an email to Kevin Cox asking for help but have had no response yet. I know
eventually POL will pass the blame on me and deduct the amount but is it fair??, and how can!
be sure it will not happen again.

I think its about time some one listens for this could be another horizon glitch and before any
one accuses me they should be informed that being a senior magistrate and Bench Chairman of
one of the largest Courts in the Country and having been held in high esteem by my community
honesty and integrity is all I live for and my track record can be checked by anyone.

Hope you will look into it

Thanks and Regards
POL00298435
POL00298435

Pervez Nakvi

