POL00297884
POL00297884

From: Matthews, Gavin[¢ GRO

Sent:
To:

Ce:

Subject: RE: Issues for Brian Altman QC to deal with

Dear all

Just to let you know Brian Altman QC is free this Wednesday at 1.30 for a % hour tele con. I will get Olivia to send an
appointment for your diaries.

Kind regards.

Gavin Matthews
Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Sent: 22 July 2013 15:20
To: Matthews, Gavin; Susan Crichton
Subject: Re: Issues for Brian Altman QC to deal with [BD-4A.FID20472253]

Legally privileged and confidential
This was a list i did last friday / saturday if it's of help.

- reply to cere

- prep for ag query

- prep for sc query (select committee)

- prep for sra query

- civil stance with fj (including how engaged question - via ck or pol?)

- civil cases

- new cases strategy

- ongoing "in play" cases strategy

- review of past cases and strategy for those (eg qc sitting over ck before writing to people)
- updates strategy to exco, board, shex and rm

- engagement with rm strategy

- weekly meetings w/i pol (being set up)

- ss review and how that finishes to a final report (plus working party)- adjudicator scheme question
- branch users forum

- prepping for any compensation fund
POL00297884
POL00297884

- review of players and their interaction (eg ck, fj, security)

From: Matthews, Gavin [.
Sent: Monday, July 22, 2013 11:59 AM
To: Susan Crichton; Hugh Fleminaton: Jarnail A Singh; Rodric Williams; Richardson, Simon
< .n--GRO

Cc: Parsons, Andrew
Subject: Issues for Brian Altman QC to deal with [BD-4A.FID20472253]

All

Andy Parsons and I have given thought to the general issues we need to discuss with Brian Altman QC if he receives
POL's stamp of approval after our 20 minute call with him (probably on Wednesday). Let us know if you agree/want to
include other issues.

1. Review and advise on CK's strategy and process for reviewing past/live criminal prosecutions - we propose that he
reviews a sample of prosecutions in which (i) CK say there is an issue and (ii) CK say there is no issue

2. Review and advise on POL's response to the CCRC letter

3. Review and advise on what CK say about GJ and his past expert witness statements and advise on the root cause
of the problem - how much investigation should POL carry out?

4. Advise on what POL should do re expert witness evidence in the future
5. Advise on what action the AG may take

6. Advise on POLs future prosecution strategy

Regards

Gavin

Gavin Matthews

Partner
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

www.bonddickinson.com

Please consider the environment! Do you need to print this email?

POL00297884
POL00297884

I and any attachments is confiden
hments. If you are not h

The information in this e-
access this e-mail and any

ly is authorised to
possible and delete any

38 $00

copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination, distribution, publication o1

wunication or attachments is unlawful

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission, Bond Dickinson LLP accepts no li

y for any loss or d
hich may be eaused by software viruses and you should carry out your own virus checks before opening any a

Content of this email which does not relate to the official business of Bond Dickinson LLP, is neither given nor endorsed by it

This email is sent for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP which is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales under number 0C317661. Our r.
office is St Ann's Wharf, 1 12 Quayside, Neweastle Upon Tyne, NEI 3DX, where a list of membe
the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is of equi

imes is open to inspection, We use the term partner to refer to a
nt standing. Our VAT registration number is GB123393627.

Bond Dickinson LLP is authorised and reg

fed by the Solicitors Regulation Authority

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

