WORKING AGREEMENT

“FINAL”

Finance Service Centre and Network

Author : Alison Bolsover & Michael Haworth
Reviewers: Andy Winn & Michael Haworth

Version : 2.12

Page 1

POL00088897
POL00088897

FI1324/1
Zpee id

0. Document Control

0.1 Document History

Versio I Date Reason
n
1.0 01/04/20 IInitial OLA agreed and implemented
09
2.1 12/08/20 IReview of whole document by Network and
10 FSC
2.2 29/09/10 IReviewed and content agreed by Alison
Bolsover, Andy Winn & Michael Haworth
2.3 20/10/10 IWorking Agreement circulated
2.4 25/01/11 IUpdated to reflect new structure
2.5 14/02/11 IUpdated with Network write-off process
2.6 13/7/11 Updated with TA dispute process
2.7 12/03/12 IUpdated with revised Network write-off
process & team names
2.8 08/08/12 IUpdated with revised Network write-off
process
2.9 Review of WA
2.10 20/12/12 IReview of WA

Page 2

POL00088897

POL00088897
elpee bid

0.2 Abbreviations

Abbreviat IDefinition
ion
A&L Alliance & Leicester
AP Automated Payments
EDS Electronic Data System
EFC Electronic Filing Cabinet
NS&I National Savings & Investments
OLA Operating Level Agreement
FSC Finance Service Centre
Rems Remittances
TA Transaction Acknowledgement
TC Transaction Correction
CONTENTS
oO. Document Control

0.1 Document History

0.2 Abbreviations...
1. Executive Summary ..

Purpose .........

PeePe
ORwNe

2. Introduction & Purpose ....

i
i

2.2

3. Operating Level Agreement

a1
3.1.1
3.1.2

Rationale for OLA......
Mutual Responsibilities :
Profit & Loss consequence ..
Dependencies

Overview...
Timescales .

SOIYIIIHRADVDWN

Transaction Corrections issued by FSC.

Cheques to EDS (processing centre), Cash Rems & Unpaid Cheques.........8

Bureau Rems, Camelot, DVLA, Government Services, Paystation, Postal Orders, Suspense, Quantum &

A’ Co)) Cel 3 af- Ban 8

POL00088897
POL00088897
vlbeela

ww ww
WWW WW DWE WWW DWE RDWWHUWYWOUWWOY

www

bh

PRR B EEE

i

as

DAHA

5)

POL00088897
POL00088897

SAVING StAMPS occ cece cee cece cece cence eee ee ee eee e nee eeteeea eens 9
Fraudulent Cash Cheques... se. ese e eee c eee e eee eee eee een ene een ees 9
Client related errors - A&L, ATMs (all types), First rate pre-order & travellers cheques, Moneygram, NS&I,
Personal Banking underpayments & Travel insurance eee
Debit Cards... cece c eee e cece teen e eee eee e ene te ee
Automated Payments underpayments .
Stock Transaction Corrections. .
Automated Payment Overpayments and Personal Banking Overpayments...
Aged / Large volume / value Transaction Corrections .
Acceptance of Transaction Corrections ...........+0+5 eee
Timescales - a quick reference guide .......... 00. e cece eee ences

Enquiries between Branches and FSC (could be via NBSC helpline) or Network Support Admin Team 14

Branch Trading
Branch Discrepancies .
a1
22
Settle Centrally...
Dispute Process

1
2
3
3

Debt Recovery Process ..
a1
+2

Losses and Write offs

Network Conduct Cases, Appeals and investigations ....

Unwne

Ne

BwNne

Enquiries from Branches to FSC (could be via NBSC helpline) or Network Support Admin Team 14
Enquiries from FSC to Branches

Definition. .-
Investigation...

Transaction Corrections.
Transaction Corrections where there is insufficient time to investigate prior to Branch Trading roll over 18
Branch Discrepancies
Disputes Appeals.

Debt Recovery timescales...
Deductions from Remuneration to Settle Outstanding Debt .

MEASUFEMENE oe eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eee eeeeeee
Conformance & NBSC Helpline queries.
Monthly Reporting .
Knowledge Base
System Issues ..
NBSC Helpline queries to FSC
Branch Non-conformance ..
Opening Hours...........0008
Product & Branch Accounting
NBSC helpline
Review & day to day Relationship
Quarterly review
FSC Contacts .
Changes ....
Day to Day Contacts

Page 4
Sivzebid

aaa!

BONE

2020p

Dependencies 6... cece eee e cece eee cnet e teen nent eee e eben een e eee

National Federation of Subpostmasters .

Clients & Joint Venture Partners ....

Suppliers

Cash, Bureau & Stock.

Appendices
FSC Write off Proces
Multiple Partner variation to main OLA.
Crown Offices variation to Main OLA.
Branch Standards

Page 5

31

POL00088897
POL00088897
g/vze bid

POL00088897
POL00088897

1. Executive Summary

1.1 Purpose

To improve conformance and cut losses via agreed roles and responsibilities, standards and
measures for Transaction Corrections, debt recovery, enquiries and conformance between FSC
and Network. It initially commenced 1°* April 2009 as an agreed OLA between Product &
Branch Accounting, Network and Service Delivery. A decision was taken to separate the
agreements with Network and Service Delivery, thereby resulting in the formulation of this
document.

1.2 Rationale for Working Agreement

1.Preventing losses - stopping recurrence by timely and clear notification to the right
parties and pro-active intervention.

2.Improving debt recovery - better chance of recovery when you identify it earlier

3.Owning and managing budgets - budget holders will feel more control and opportunity
to act

4.Clarifying standards for FSC staff - to improve responses through pace and narration

5.Clarifying standards and responsibilities for Network.

1.3 Mutual Responsibilities

> FSC will provide timely and informative notice of the issue.

> Network will produce and communicate to individual branches a Branch Scorecard on a
monthly basis.

> Network will take prompt and constructive corrective action and ensure branches
respond accordingly...

> All parties shall work to learn from past issues to prevent future recurrence.

> 95% of individual errors and issues will be reported within 3 months of the date of
the transaction, where it is within FSC’s control to do so.

Page 6
Livzevid

POL00088897
POL00088897

1.4 Profit & Loss consequence
> If timescale met, default is for all losses / write offs to be charged to Network and
to Product budgets
> If timescales not met, default is to charge to FSC budgets
> In the event of dispute, and only as last resort, Finance Analysis to mediate on
whose budget

1.5 Dependencies

FSC will work with clients and suppliers to improve the timeliness of their data to Post
Office Ltd to enable further improvement to the timescales for issuing of Transaction
corrections. This is also subject to the authorisation of business cases to employ agency
resource within FSC.

Production of the Branch Scorecard by Network, is dependent on receiving the data from FSC
in a timely manner.

2. Introduction & Purpose

2.1 Overview

This Working Agreement is between FSC and Network . It covers all branch types, with
appendices attached to cover the Crown branches and Multiple Partners.

The agreement is for the interaction with Post Office Branches, with regards to
Transaction Corrections, Debt recovery, response to queries and branch conformance.

All parties will use reasonable endeavours to ensure that the timescales highlighted in
the operating level agreement are met.

2.2 Timescales
The Working Agreement will commence October 2010 and will be used as a living document,
that can be updated at any time if needed, following agreement by both parties at the
scheduled monthly liaison meetings.

Page 7
sipzelid

POL00088897
POL00088897

3. Working Agreement

3.1 Transaction Corrections issued by FSC

The following section sets out the standard timescales for the issuing of Transaction
Corrections to Branches, by FSC.

Note: If there is a fraud investigation at any branch,

this could delay the Transaction
Corrections being issued.

This means the timescales detailed above are unlikely to be met.

3.1.1 Cheques to EDS (processing centre), Cash Rems & Unpaid Cheques

95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 1 month of the transaction date,
with the exception of missing cheques, this allows for late despatch / delivery.

In the case of missing cheques, on occasions these need to be queried with the Client
or Customer. In these cases the Branch will be contacted within 3 months,
of the potential issue and its value,
information. 95%

to be aware
and for the branch to provide the relevant
of these Transaction Corrections will be issued within 6 months.

3.1.2 Bureau Rems, Camelot, DVLA, Government Services, Paystation, Postal Orders,

Suspense, Quantum & Vouchers

These areas are matched over a Branch Trading period and therefore 95% of the
Transaction Corrections will be issued within 2 months of the transaction date.

Page 8
6/vze Lid

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.1.3 Saving Stamps

Product now discontinued

3.1.4 Fraudulent Cash Cheques
These are alerted to FSC by the Santander, following their checks and investigations.
95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 4 months of the transaction
date.

3.1.5 Client related errors - A&L, ATMs (all types), First rate pre-order & travellers
cheques, Moneygram, NS&I, Personal Banking underpayments & Travel insurance
If a difference needs to be queried with a Client then the Branch will be contacted
within 3 months, to be aware of the potential issue and its value, and for the branch
to provide the relevant information. The issue will then be queried with the Client.
95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 6 months.

3.1.6 Debit Cards

This is dependant on when we receive the chargeback from the bank, following their
checks. 95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 6 months of the
transaction date.

3.1.7 Automated Payments underpayments

95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 1 month of the enquiry being
received by FSC.

3.1.8 Stock Transaction Corrections

Branches must report a stock surplus or shortage to the NBSC helpline and follow the
standard process. 95% of the Transaction Corrections will be issued within 3 months
of the date the surplus or shortage is reported.

If a Branch does not follow this process for shortages then the Transaction
Correction will not be issued. The same applies to any expected Transaction
Corrections for incorrect stock adjustments.

Page 9
OleZelA

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.1.9 Automated Payment Overpayments and Personal Banking Overpayments

These have to be queried with the Client and Customer. A Transaction Correction will
only be issued if the Client and Customer agree. 95% of these will be issued within 2

years.

3.1.10 Aged / Large volume / value Transaction Corrections

FSC will ensure that significant or widespread issues with regard to aged, high
volume, high value will be communicated to the Network and Service Delivery in
advance of the Transaction Corrections being issued.
> Aged - If Transaction Corrections are to be issued outside the timescales set out
in this document and it affects more than 10% of the Network, the FSC
relationship manager will contact Network Change & Internal Engagement Team in
advance of them being issued. This team will then work with the rest of Network
line management, including the NFSP Liaison Manager to understand what
communication support and action is required.

> High Volume - If the volume of Transaction Corrections for an individual product
is 25% more than usual volumes, the FSC relationship manager will contact Network
Change & Internal Engagement Team in advance of them being issued.

> High Value - If the value of a Transaction Correction is more than £10,000, FSC
or Cash Services will have a conversation with the branch involved and the
Network in advance of issue, unless one of the following applies:
a) A compensating Transaction Correction is issued at the same time.
b) The amount can be seen in suspense.
c)A compensating Transaction Correction or branch discrepancy has been accepted

previously.

d) Evidence has been sent to the branch in advance of transaction correction.

Page 10
Lbipeebis

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.1.11 Acceptance of Transaction Corrections

Branches will ensure that all Transaction Corrections are accepted within their
Branch Trading period. It is recommended that they are looked at / investigated
within 1 week of receipt. Refer to section 3.6 for any disputes and if this affects
Branch Trading. FSC will not issue aged / high volume / high value Transaction
Corrections on the Monday / Tuesday prior to Branch Trading, without prior branch
agreement. If a Transaction Correction does arrive on Branch Trading day, the branch
has to action it before they can roll their branch trading period. The branch
however, can still dispute in line with section 3.6.

If a branch receives compensating Transaction Corrections, they must settle these
both in the same way, either both make good or both settle centrally.

Page 11
ZhveelA

3.1.12 Timescales - a quick reference guide

Transaction Correction Expected first Expected
Type contact with Timescale for
Branch issue of TC

Santander Within 3 Within 6 months
months

ATMs (All types) Within 3 Within months
months

Automated Payment Within 1 month IWithin years

overpayments

Automated Payment Within 1 month IWithin month

underpayments

Bureau rems Within 2 Within months
months

Camelot Within 2 Within months
months

Cash remittance Within 1 month IWithin month

Cheques to EDS Within 1 month IWithin month

(processing centre)

Cheques to EDS - Missing Within 3 Within months
months

Debit Cards chargebacks Within 6 Within months
months

DVLA Within 2 Within months
months

First Rate pre-order Within 3 Within months
months

First Rate travellers Within 3 Within months

cheques months

Page 12

POL00088897
POL00088897
ebhiveela

Fraudulent Cash Cheques Within 4 Within 4 months
months
Government Services Within 2 Within 2 months
months
Moneygram Within 3 Within 6 months
months
National Savings & Within 3 Within 6 months
Investments months
Drop & Go Within 2 Within 2 months
months
Personal Banking Within 1 month IWithin 2 years
overpayments
Personal Banking Within 3 Within 6 months
underpayments months
Postal Orders Within 2 Within 2 months
months
Quantum Within 2 Within 2 months
months
Stock Within 3 Within 3 months
months
Suspense Within 2 Within 2 months
months
Travel Insurance Within 3 Within 6 months
months
Unpaid Cheques Within 1 month IWithin 1 month
Vouchers Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Note: Fraud Investigations
these timescales

are likely to delay any of

Page 13

POL00088897
POL00088897
vlivzelid

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.2 Enquiries between Branches and FSC (could be via NBSC helpline) , Network Change &
Internal Engagement Team or Contract Deployment Support team.

The following section sets out the normal timescales for the response to enquiries to /
from Branches and/or customer, by FSC.

3.2.1 Enquiries from Branches to FSC (could be via NBSC helpline), Network Change &
Internal Engagement Team or Contract Support team
3.2.1.1 Underpayment of a Transaction
FSC will respond to the branch and issue a Transaction Correction within 1 month of
the enquiry being received in FSC.

3.2.1.2 Overpayment of a Transaction
FSC will follow up with the Client / Customer on behalf of the Branch, but these
could take up to 2 years to resolve (it could be a customer only has an annual
statement and does not check them) and are dependant on the Client / Customers
agreement. If the Client / Customer does not agree then the branch will be held
liable and payment will be requested.

3.2.1.3 Telephone Enquiries from Branches
FSC will respond to all telephone enquiries, within 2 working days of receipt in FSC,
this may be an update on the query or a resolution. This could be 6 working days from
the original enquiry if the enquiry has been through NBSC and / or Branch Support
Teams. There is currently no call logging process, therefore, this is an aspirational
target.

3.2.1.4 Transaction Correction enquiries
The number to contact for Transaction Correction queries will be included on the
relevant Transaction Correction. This will be someone in FSC or the NBSC helpline
number, who will be able to assist. NBSC and FSC will respond to all telephone
enquiries, within 2 working days, this may be an update on the query or a resolution.

Page 14
Sbiveeld

3.

POL00088897
POL00088897

2.2 Enquiries from FSC to Branches

FSC will at times ask Branches to provide information to assist in the investigation
process, e.g. a cheque listing. The branch will provide these within 1 week.

Page 15
ObeeelA

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.3 Branch Trading

Branches will complete their Branch Trading on the stated date for their Branch Trading
Group. In exceptional circumstances this can be completed on the following day.
Consequences of branch not completing their Branch Trading on time may mean that the data
is archived. If this is the case, the branch may be held liable for any costs incurred in
restoring this.

If there is any problem in completing Branch Trading, Branches are instructed to seek
advice from the NBSC helpline (

3.4 Branch Discrepancies
On Completion of Branch Trading, Branches may have a Branch Discrepancy;

3.4.1 Definition

When Branch Trading is completed Horizon will calculate the expected cash position, using
the transactions completed through Horizon. The Branch will then count the actual cash in
the branch and declare this. A branch discrepancy is where there is a difference between
these two values, either a cash shortage or surplus.

3.4.2 Investigation

It is the responsibility of the branch to investigate and understand the cause of this
discrepancy. The Branch may then contact the NBSC helpline () )) and advise that a
Transaction Correction is expected. This needs to be specific to include the product /
transaction type, date and value.

NBSC helpline will then report these to the relevant team in FSC for action.

3.5 Settle Centrally

Meaning - choosing the option to “Accept and Settle Centrally” signifies acceptance of a
loss or gain within a branch unless the dispute process is instigated. “Settle Centrally”
does not prohibit further investigation which might offset all or part of the loss/gain
accepted earlier, but this is a branch’s responsibility to initiate.

Page 16
LuveelA

POL00088897
POL00088897

The Settle Centrally process adjusts the system derived cash position to align to the
declared total of cash, foreign currency, cheques and value stock within the branch. The
shortage or surplus “settled centrally” is transferred to a sub-postmaster’s “Customer
Account”.

The Customer Account is managed by FSC. Outstanding amounts are resolved through the debt
recovery process

Page 17
Sbipeeld

3.6 Dispute Process

POL00088897
POL00088897

Post Office Ltd acknowledges the potential financial impact and stress that may be caused
by unexpected Transaction Corrections or Branch Discrepancies. An effective dispute
process is essential to ensure that settled centrally debts are not recovered from agents
without reasonable time to investigate, challenge and resolve individual amounts.

There are two routes by which an agent might instigate the dispute process: -

3.6.1 Transaction Corrections

> Branches should contact the Transaction Correction issuer within 7 days of
acceptance at branch to challenge the evidence provided to support the Transaction
Correction. NB Where time permits prior to Branch Trading, branches should
challenge prior to acceptance.

> If the challenge is accepted in full or part at this stage, a compensating
Transaction Correction will be issued to close the dispute.

> On receipt of supporting
recovery process, if the
response has been made.
written response, within
recommended that written

information the issuing team will suspend the debt
Transaction Correction was settled centrally, until a
Written submissions to the specific team will receive a
10 working days, in line with Business standards. It is
submissions be sent using a priority service.

3.6.2 Transaction Corrections where there is insufficient time to investigate prior to

Branch Trading roll over.

> Branches should contact NBSC (f

}) and request further time to investigate

and present supporting information. A reference number will be provided.

Page 18
6LvZelA

> Supporting information to support any dispute must then be presented in

POL00088897
POL00088897

Special Delivery to The Current Agents Accounting Team (Debt recovery),
_ GRO iwithin 7 days quoting the above reference number.

The Current Agents Accounting Team will then present to the issuing team who will

suspend the debt recovery process, if the Transaction Correction was settled

centrally, until a written response has been made. FSC will provide an update on

the query or a resolution, within 10 working days.

Branch Discrepancies

The resolution of branch discrepancies is the responsibility of the branch.
If the agent believes a transaction correction is required they should contact the

appropriate department in FSC via NBSC ([- GRO I). Supporting information
should be presented and resolution then follows the transaction correction process.
It is recommended that this be sent using a priority service. FSC will provide an

update on the query or a resolution, within 10 working days.

Disputes / Appeals

If the agent believes that the supporting information provided to FSC adequately
supports their dispute but the dispute has not been allowed they should make a
written submission to: -

The Relationship Manager

if settled centrally, will be suspended pending a
written response.

> A written response will be provided, within 10 working days, in line with Business

standards.

> All correspondence will be included on the EFC for the Network to be able to view.

Page 19
O@/vzeWA

POL00088897
POL00088897

Where a dispute is subsequently not upheld, a branch then becomes liable for the settled
centrally debt and no repayment will be made for any debt made good.

3.6.4 Transaction Acknowledgements (TAs)

If an agent wishes to dispute a TA issued to their branch they should contact NBSC
and the process on the attached document followed.

fer

TA dispute-enquiry
draft process.doc

If the agent believes that the supporting evidence adequately supports their dispute
but the dispute has not been allowed, then they should follow the process detailed
above in section 3.6.3.

3.7 Debt Recovery Process

- <£1,000 debt - recovered via next pay run after Contract Advisor sign off.
- £1,000 + debt report to Contracts Advisor.

3.7.1 Debt Recovery timescales
> Week 0 - Branch Trading
> Week 1 - Request for Payment issued.
> Week 2 - Reminder Letter issued
> Week 4
> Week 4
> Week 4

-6 - Contracts Advisor agrees method of payment for debt > £1,000.

Recoveries or payments made through pay will be impacted by payroll cut off timings.

Page 20
bapeebls

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.7.2 Deductions from Remuneration to Settle Outstanding Debt

> Deductions from remuneration should be the final option; attempts to obtain payment
by cheque or credit/debit card should be made first.

> Ideally only one deduction from remuneration is permitted to be running at a time -
if more than one is exceptionally allowed this is subject to the criteria below i.e.
maximum of 12 months repayment period and 25% maximum of remuneration overall. Where
a branch has a deduction from remuneration in place, alternative methods of payment
should be sought to settle further outstanding debt.

> Maximum time for paying by deduction from remuneration is 12 months.

> Maximum amount per month that can be enforced to be paid by deduction from
remuneration is 25% of the branch remuneration.

> Should the debt not fit within the deduction from remuneration guidelines, i.e.
amount too large, a mix of payment methods should be considered, for example, collect
a lump sum up front by cheque or credit/debit card and the remainder by deduction
from remuneration.

> Under no circumstances should a deduction from remuneration in excess of £1,000 be
set up without the branch being contacted verbally and reasonable attempts being made
to obtain a contact number for the Subpostmaster, if they are absent from the branch.

I

Guiding Principles for Debt Management
Debt Recovery Instal Process Chart and Nc

3.8 Losses and Write offs

> If timescales have been met by FSC then default is for all losses to be charged to
Network and to Product budgets

> If timescales have not been met by FSC, default is to charge to FSC budgets

> If postings originate from Horizon as in the case of Crown office losses / gains and
Transaction corrections and retail line write off, these will automatically be
charged to the Network

Page 21
2tiveevs

POL00088897
POL00088897

If FSC makes a decision on disputes, then the default is to charge to FSC budgets
Aged debt outside of the current financial year should be charged to FSC budgets.
In the event of dispute, and only as last resort, Finance Analysis to mediate on
whose budget

> FSC will operate the attached write off process to ensure that all steps have been
followed before write off.

VV WV

Please see Appendix A for full write off process.

3.9 Network Conduct Cases, Appeals and investigations
FSC will provide an accurate summary of the Transaction Corrections, issued, accepted and

outstanding within 2 working days of the request being made by the Contract, Appeals or
Investigation Manager, on an office-by-office basis.

FSC will provide an accurate summary of outstanding debt held in the settled centrally
account for a branch within 2 working days of the request being made by the Contract,
Appeals or Investigation Manager.

FSC will provide an accurate summary of any other debt, that FSC were aware of, for a
branch within 2 working days of the request being made by the Contract, Appeals or
Investigation Manager.

FSC to provide accurate details for Branch Trading balancing results, showing
discrepancies committed on Horizon, for a branch for the previous 12 months prior to a
given date (this may be the date of a suspension for example) within 2 working days of the
request being made by the Contract, Appeals or Investigation Manager.

FSC to provide the date of last Branch Trading with response.

FSC and Contract, Appeals or Investigation Manager will agree a quicker timescales on a
case-by-case basis for urgent requests.

Page 22
etipeeva

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.10 Measurement

To measure this Working Agreement in its entirety would require a lot of resource.
Therefore, this agreement will be measured on an exceptions basis. Any instances where the
agreement has not been met will be reported, with the relevant information, to the
following people.

Name Area Email Address
Alison FSC
Bolsover
Andy Winn FSC

Tom Pegler I Crown

Network
Julia Chg &
Marwood Internal
Engagement
Michael Chg &
Haworth Internal
Engagement
Gayle Conformance
Peacock Stds &
Policy

The Relationship Manager will produce a monthly Working Agreement summary report, using a
RAG status for reporting. plus YTD and period totals. This will be reviewed at the monthly

liaison meetings held between Network Change & Internal Engagement and FSC Relationship
Manager.

Page 23
veel

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.11 Conformance & NBSC Helpline queries

3.11.1 Monthly Reporting

FSC will provide a monthly report of Transaction Corrections to the Network. FSC will
also provide a monthly worst branch report to the Network and Network Efficiency
Programme.

3.11.2 Knowledge Base

FSC will provide regular updates to ensure that the Knowledge Base scripts held at
the NBSC are up to date to deal with the incoming calls.

3.11.3 System Issues

FSC will request intervention/escalation from Service Delivery to deal with specific
issues which have not been/can not be resolved via the usual

route (s) /processes/procedures. Such issues will include (but are not limited to)
missing, incorrect or corrupt data/files from external suppliers/customers, failure
to follow agreed processes/procedures by external suppliers/customers, system
failures that have not been resolved via the agreed processes or to the agreed
timescales.

3.11.4 NBSC Helpline queries to FSC

FSC will respond to requests from the NSBC helpline within 10 working days of
request.

Page 24
Stiveela

POL00088897
POL00088897

3.11.5 Branch Non-conformance

Although the responsibility for conformance clearly sits with the Network, FSC will
work with the Network, Crown offices and Multiple Partners to address conformance
issues.

3.12 Branch Standards

Network will produce and communicate on a monthly basis to individual branches, a Branch
Scorecard, which will detail performance against an agreed number of branch
standards. This scorecard is sent to all agency branches, multiple partners and
temporary subpostmaster companies. Network will also instigate intervention &
corrective activity with branches in accordance with agreed criteria.

Details of this agreement are attached in Appendix D

3.13 Opening Hours

3.13.1 Finance Service Centre
FSC will be available to take phone calls between 8 am and 5pm, Monday to Friday
(excluding Public holidays). They can also use the email address
{ GRO tand someone from FSC will call them back, within 2
working days. This email address can also be used to arrange an out of hours call.

Page 25
POL00088897
POL00088897

3.13.2 NBSC helpline

The NBSC helpline will be open from 6am until llpm Monday to Saturday and 9am till
5pm on Sundays and Bank Holidays.

3.14 Review & day to day Relationship

3.14.1 Ongoing Working Agreement review

Performance against this Working Agreement will be reviewed on a regular basis at a
meeting attended by representatives from FSC and Network. Feedback will be sought
from all stakeholders prior to the meetings.

3.14.2 FSC and Network Contacts
> FSC will provide details of contacts within FSC at regular intervals, minimum
annually.

> Network will provide details of contacts within the Network at regular intervals,
minimum annually.

3.14.3 Changes
> FSC to provide details of any suggested changes to the Network in advance of
implementation, to enable impact assessment by Network

> Network to provide details of any suggested changes to the FSC, in advance of
implementation, to enable impact assessment by FSC

9@/veelA

>
3.14.4 Day to Day Contacts
Name Role Area Email Telephon
Alison Branch Conformance & FSC
Bolsover Liaison
Andy Winn Relationship Manager FSC
Page 26
Levee

POL00088897
POL00088897

Paul Dann Agents Debt accounting FSC
Jackie
Whitham
Michelle Former Agent Debt FSC
Stevens accounting
Colette Multiples & Crown FSC
McActeer Accounting, Fraud &
conformance
Tom Pegler Crown Service & Efficiency INetwork
Julia Network Change & Internal Network
Marwood Engagement
Michael Network Change & Internal Network
Haworth Engagement
John Breedon IAgent Contracts deployment INetwork
Gayle Conformance Stds and Network
Peacock Policy
Shaun Turner IBranch Standards data Network
analyst
Neil Barnard INational Multiples non Network
sales
Page 27
POL00088897
POL00088897

4. Dependencies

In order to deliver the levels / timescales in this
agreement, the following dependencies need to be met.

4.1 National Federation of Subpostmasters

Agreement to the principles of this Working Agreement
must to be sought from the NFSP to the timescales in
this document

4.2 Clients & Joint Venture Partners

Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with Client Banks, A&L, Bank
of Ireland, Hanco, First Rate, Moneygram, NS&I, Camelot,
DVLA, Post Office Ltd Banks, Quantum and the Passport
Service to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.

Failure by our Clients to deliver the requested
information will be reported and dealt with on a case-
by-case basis.

4.3 Suppliers

Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with EDS, Steria and Fujitsu
to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.

Failure by our Suppliers to deliver the requested
information will be reported and dealt with on a case-
by-case basis.

4.4 Cash, Bureau & Stock
Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with Supply Chain and Service
Delivery to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.
Failure to deliver the requested information will be
reported and dealt with on a case-by-case basis.

5. Appendices

Appendix A
> FSC and Network write-off process

a)

T:\Finance\Finance Write-off Process -
Product & Branch Acc Final Dec 2012 v 6.de
Page 28

F/1324/28
POL00088897
POL00088897

Appendix B

Multiple Partners

Introduction

The Working Agreement is focused around the independent
section of the Network but is largely valid to the Multiple
Partners Network. This appendix identifies aspects where
the working of the agreement varies in relation to the
Multiple Partners.

In all sections in the main Working Agreement the words
Subpostmaster would be replaced with Multiple Partner

3.2.1 Enquiries between Multiple partners and their branches
and FSC (could be via NBSC helpline or Contract Support
Team)

3.5 Settle Centrally is replaced by Assigning to Nominee for
Multiple Partners

Meaning - choosing the option to “Assign to Nominee”
signifies acceptance of a loss or gain within a branch
unless the dispute process is instigated. “Assign to
Nominee” does not prohibit further investigation which might
offset all or part of the loss/gain accepted earlier, but
this is a branch’s responsibility to initiate.

The Assign to Nominee process adjusts the system derived
cash position to align to the declared total of cash,
foreign currency, cheques and value stock within the branch.
The shortage or surplus “assigned to nominee” is transferred
to the Multiple Partners “Customer Account”.

The Customer Account is managed by FSC. Outstanding amounts
are resolved through the debt recovery process

3.7 Debt Recovery Process

3.7.1 Debt Recovery timescales Cheques /BACS/CHAPS
payments

Week 0 - Branch Trading

Week 2 - Invoice issued to partner

Page 29
F/1324/29
POL00088897
POL00088897

Week 5 - Payment Due
Week 8 - Reminder issued to partner
Week 10 - Escalation to Contract Advisor

3.11 Monthly Reporting

FSC will produce separate TC reporting summaries for each
of the Multiple Partners. This will be provided to
Network Intervention Team within agreed timescales, for
issue onto the Multiple Partners.

3.14Review & day to day relationship

FSC will identify named individuals to be the first point of
contact for Multiple Partner account queries. The Multiple
Partner will be advised of the named contact and kept
informed of any changes.

FSC will support any Multiple Partners meetings as required
at the request of the Network.

Network’s Multiples Non-Sales Performance Mgr will own the
operational non-sales performance relationship with the
Multiple Partners.

Page 30
F/1324/30
POL00088897
POL00088897

3.13.4 Appendix C

Crown Offices

Introduction

The Working Agreement is focused around the independent
section of the Network but is largely valid to the Crown
Network. This appendix identifies aspects where the working
of the agreement varies in relation to the Crown Network.

3.1.10 Aged / Large volume / value Transaction Corrections

Communications in relation to all these transaction
corrections will be made to the Crown & Service Efficiency
Team.

3.5___ Settle Centrally
This function is not available for the Crown Network with
losses and gains impacting POL Profit and Loss Accounts.

3.7___ Debt Recovery Process
Not applicable.

Page 31
F/1324/31
Zelpee ld

Appendix D

Branch Standards

Branch Standards -
SLA - P&BA.doc

Page 32

POL00088897
POL00088897
