POL00057156
POL00057156

Helen Watson

From:

Sent: 24 October 2011 08:53
To: Helen Watson
Subject: Wilson - Astwood Bank
Helen

These two questions relating to Wilson can only be obtained from Fujitsu and question 34 needs to be answered
before examining question 23. The Horizon logs form part of the costing from Horizon and as such this
information has not been requested until we get assurances that Shoosmiths are going to pay for the retrieval of
this data.

23. Records of 2 replacement Horizon systems that Wilson allegedly required

34. Logs/details of any Helpline calls made by Interim Enterprises Limited regarding Horizon?

~ have been advised that no relevant accounting records for the three offices are held at Iron Mountain and this
neans that they have either been destroyed or are being held somewhere else in the Post Office® network. I
have asked Alison Bolsover for assistance in this matter.

Iam on annual leave this week but will check my phone messages if you need to contact me.
Regards

Jon Longman
Security Advisor

worn

ic Viens me

@ Address: Post Office® Ltd Security, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old Street, London,

Security Team E-mail: post.office.security!

Grapevine website: www.grapevine.co.uk

Confidential Information: This email message is for the sole use of the intended racipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

Post Office Ltd is a trading name of Royal Mail Group Ltd. Registered in England and Wales number: 2154540.
Registered Office: 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail

- Royal Mail Group Limited registered in England and
Wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ This
email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this
in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

