POL00032558
POL00032558

Accepting or disputing losses or gains in branch

Here’s a quick reminder about what it means to ‘settle
centrally’, and how to accept or dispute losses or gains in
branch.

What happens when you ‘settle centrally’?

If you have a loss or a gain in your branch and choose to ‘settle
centrally’, this means that you accept the loss or gain and your
branch is returned to balance (unless you follow the dispute
process).

Horizon then recognises that the cash discrepancy has not been
rectified, and instead transfers the loss or gain to your
‘customer account’. The customer account is managed by product
and branch accounting, and we then start the debt recovery
process to recover outstanding amounts.

Disputing transaction corrections

If you would like to dispute a transaction correction, you should
contact the person who has sent you the transaction correction as
soon as possible. If your dispute is accepted, a compensating
transaction correction will be sent to you.

You may be asked to give more information to support your
dispute. However, if a transaction correction is issued too close
to branch trading to be fully investigated, you can call the NBSC
on 0845 6011 022 to ask for more time to gather and present
supporting information.

Resolving branch discrepancies

It is your responsibility to resolve branch discrepancies. If you
believe a transaction correction is needed to resolve the
discrepancy you should contact the appropriate department in
product and branch accounting via the NBSC on 0845 6011 022.

If you have disputed a transaction correction or branch
discrepancy, but your case is not allowed, you can make a written
submission explaining why the loss (or gain) is not proper to
your branch to:-

The Relationship Manager

1 Future Walk

Chesterfield

S49 1PF
The debt recovery process, if settled centrally, will then be
suspended pending a written response.

If you have any questions about accepting or disputing losses or
gains, please contact the NBSC on 0845 6011 022.

Andy Winn
Branch Improvement & Liaison
POL00032558
POL00032558
