POL00338648
POL00338648

Message

From: Andrew Winn;

on behalf of © Andrew Winn},

Sent:

To: .
Subject: RE: Branch visits with shex

I think it might be better to use On line help as I have used the old Ops manual here.

Andy

From: Alison Bolsover

Sent: 20 February 2012 15:56

To: Andrew Winn

Subject: RE: Branch visits with shex

Thanks Andy - And welcome back ,hope you had a great time

Could you download and send me the 57 pages in a document so I have it to show Rod or I can summarise
Cheers Ali

sore Original Message-----

From: Andrew winn

Sent: 20 February 2012 13:28

To: Alison Bolsover

Cc: Cathy X Macdonald

Subject: RE: Branch visits with shex

Ali

The 6pm target is not defined as such but it makes sense to ensure end of day/week/month routines are
commenced by this time as all data produced on Horizon is recorded real time at the data centre. This is
the polled at 19.00 to POLSAP/Credence/Clients. If activities are performed later than 19.00 it will
form part of the next day's transactions.

As covered in the chain already there is no requirement for a branch to close to carry out branch
trading. Crowns already carry out such routines whilst service continues - although there is a customer
experience issue when staff are seen counting cash etc rather then serving. Small PO Local type branches
do have a problem here. I understand the project are aware and considering how to sensibly maintain
service level whist carrying out essential routines.

There are 57 pages of branch trading report instructions so will not try to squeeze that into half a
page.

we do need pre 19.00:-

Cash declarations - flexible planning.

Cheque despatches - last collection time.

RM & Parcelforce despatches - last collection time.

Santander cut off (Wednesdays) - we get charged for each cut off error.

(this list is not necessarily exclusive - the product owners may be aware of implications in their areas
I am not aware of.)

There are lots of different daily and weekly reports but the majority of SUs will not have to run most of
them as they will not have performed related transactions. Branch trading has no timing implications -
we already ask the Lottery network to roll on the Thursday.

Andy

wo--- Original Message-----

From: Alison Bolsover

Sent: 20 February 2012 08:59

To: Andrew Winn; Cathy X Macdonald
Subject: FW: Branch visits with shex

andy / cathy

Urgent
Can you pull me this request together today please so that I can give to Rod tomorrow a.m.
Ali
POL00338648
POL00338648

-----Original Message-----

From: Rod Ismay

Sent: 20 February 2012 08:22

To: Alison Bolsover

Subject: Re: Branch visits with shex

Thanks Ali. I shall send the note below and then could you get a short note like a half page email which
explains in bullet points the main things that a branch would be doing as part of that end of day and end
of period stuff. I'm briefly in chesterfield before a train to london tomorrow so would be great if we
could have a few mins chat first thing.

Thanks Rod

- Original Message -----
From: Alison Bolsover

Sent: Monday, February 20, 2012 08:53 AM
To: Rod Ismay

Subject: RE: Branch visits with shex

Rod
Looks Ok to me
Ali

-original Message-----
From: Rod Ismay

Sent: 19 February 2012 23:42

To: Alison Bolsover

Cc: Rod Ismay

Subject: Re: Branch visits with shex

Hi Alison - I'm off a day but will give you a quick call first thing just to check the note below reads
ok.

It follows my email earlier today, I plan to send the note below to Kevin Gilliland but would like to
follow up soon after with a bit more description of what key routines happen at end of day, end of week
and end of trading period. And to be clear about who is driving the need for them and whether they can in
part or in full be done earlier or later.

For now though is the following ok from your point of view.
Kevin, Lesley,
Accounting processes do not force a branch to stop trading at 6.

However, there are housekeeping and cash security routines that do need doing at some time. Some of them
can only be done when trade has finished and when the system is no longer in serve customer mode. I
think the issue is more of being clear with branches what the trading hours are and then ensuring
Fcieney and security in getting the end of day routines done after the agreed closing time. This will
involve:

(a) reinforcing necessary end of day routines to bring them more to life if they are not understood -
this fits with the current review of procedural instructions in NTP,

(b) reinforcing the need for conformance during the day to save time at the end of the day, and

(c) having a lean mindset to how through technology and process we can work with branches to streamline
routines

I_suspect there is a risk that when we say, for example 7-7 hours for a branch, they may interpret 7pm
closure as being “end of wrap up routines" as opposed to “end of customer opening hours". That then
creates a false branch closure at say 6.30 which is not what we want.

The end of day routines have probably been well understood by agents in the traditional 9-5 model but,
particularly with staff shift changes etc on longer trading days, it needs review in NTP.

Enablers will depend on joined up solutions between P&BA, Network and IT. This may also necessitate an
understanding of how PO data processing windows align with those of our clients too.

Branches are required to follow a “Branch Trading" cycle which ends on a Wednesday. The routines are part
of their local assurance processes, their sign off on their accounts and housekeeping to rol] into the
new period.

As I say, I don't believe this has to be done at 6.

There are things that need doing to tie in with end of trade on the wednesday, but it can be done later.
As regards the work that is needed at month end, branches can also help themselves to reduce it if they
deploy good conformance and compliance during the day. That means getting it right first time in their

transactions, in their "cut-offs", in their remittances and in their cash and stock checks during the
day.
POL00338648
POL00338648

I will find out more on the specifics of period end routines and how these are being considered in NTP.
Thanks, Rod

----- Original Message -----

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: Sunday, February 19, 2012 06:55 PM
To: Kevin Gilliland

Cc: Rod Ismay

Subject: RE: Branch visits with shex

Kevin

A branch has to be closed to perform their balance. However, we have checked with Fujitsu whether there
are any technical reasons why the branch would have to close at 6pm on a Wednesday to do this, and
there's no technical reason for this at all. It's all down to our business processes.

We have made Rod aware of your query as this looks to be a call between P&BA and Network about when
branches need to balance. From an IT perspective, there's no problem with the branch performing their
balance as soon as they close. The only point I will make is that we do have the feasibility study
looking at extended hours as there will be times when there is a need for ‘down time’ periods due to
changes or operational overnight activities. But these would not be a 6 on a Wednesday evening.

I've copied Rod into the email to respond from a business process perspective.

Regards Lesley

From: Kevin Gilliland

Sent: 16 February 2012 06:00 PM

To: Roger W Gale; Sue Huggins; Lesley J Sewell
Cc: Jackie Meylak

Subject: Branch visits with shex

Belsize park - looks good, no queues. 2 issues arising: they have to close the PO once a month on a
wednesday at 6 to balance. They have been told that they have to do this because of Horizon. This is one
of the main reasons for customer complaints because it's closed just when customers use the service on
their way home from the office. Lesley, is this right an if so how do we resolve this? Sue, presumably
this is a wider issue? How much of a problem is it? The second issue is the helpline not being
available. They didn't know that we were going to address this. what are the plans and when will it
happen? why haven't we kept the branch informed?

camden - this was an eye opener for Susanna as she experienced se of the challenges we face in Crowns
such as property and flexibility of staffing. The manager and CAM expelled that it was quiet in branch
because of half term. I asked if they therefore let staff take holidays to match the reduced demand bur
was told that we can only let 3 go at a time! Their was a sea of unoccupied staff.

Fulham: great looking branch and store. And everyone impressed.... But the was no signage at the local
counter and it wasn't being used! If I had of realised this I wouldn't have gone. Also they had
experienced massive problems getting forms because the fad code has changed. why haven't we picked this
up. The manager was asp saying that they have lost business because there is no in store signage
anywhere. To cope they've put up some of the old signs from The WHS branch (!!!) and there are no signs
that point to where the Po is at the back of a very large store. who is supposed to be project managing
this and what quality checks do we have in place?

I'd like your responses by Monday pls

Sent from my iPhone
