POL00097787
POL00097787

Message
From:
Sent:

To:

ce: Rodric Willi

leant nninirarntnnisrsrntnndsiranirinintwd

Alison Bolsover

Subject: ‘SI 001 Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Attachments: image003.png; image004.png; image005.png; image006.png; image002.jpg

SRO01 Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Hi Gareth

We have been asked by Second Sight Support Services Limited to respond to an allegation that Horizon reverses
transactions without alerting the branch.

As you are aware, allegations that the Horizon system is defective and/or that the processes associated with it are
inadequate have been, and continue to be, the subject of legal challenges. We must therefore assume that the parties
who want to pursue these allegations will look to our response to advance their allegations, including through the
Courts. We will therefore be obtaining legal advice on the response before it is finalised and sent to Second Sight to
ensure it fairly represents our position and does not prejudice our ability to advance that position before the Courts.

As the provider of the Horizon system which Post Office Limited uses, it is in the interests of both Fujitsu and Post Office
Limited to ensure that the response to this allegation is accurate and fair. We would therefore like you to comment on
our draft response (copy attached) before we provide it to our solicitors. We would be grateful to receive this by 28"
March 2013.

I need to respond to the 2™ bullet under second sight’s preliminary conclusions.

“The decision by P&BA not to examine the Horizon detailed transaction data on cost grounds delayed or denied the
SPMR the opportunity to process the transactions correctly or understand what happened.”

Under the terms of the current contract with Fujitsu Post Office Ltd are entitled to request Fujitsu to provide
detailed branch historical transactional data. The number of requests that can be actioned within a month
without additional charge is capped at (Gareth can you confirm the current number? Dave is on leave this
month)

The Security team of Post Office Ltd manage this process. Access to this data is intended to support specific
Security investigations which may ultimately require this data to be presented before a court of law.

Finance Service Centre is able to request such data but has no budget to fund this should a request breach
the cap.

Such a request would inevitably create a delay in providing the branch with a meaningful reply.

e Finance Service Centre was able to informally determine from Fujitsu why there was a break of continuity in

the transaction session numbers as raised by Mr Armstrong.

Finance Service Centre believed they had an adequate understanding of the event to provide a response to

the points made in the letter received:-

There was no reversal carried out in branch.

A loss of connectivity caused the problem.

It is understandable that the branch may have got confused.

The lack of receipt indicates that the bill had not been paid.

There is no actual financial loss to the branch.

There was no response to the letter sent on 14° December 2012 to suggest the response had not addressed

the concerns raised.

ere wR

POL-0097370
POL00097787
POL00097787

e  Atransaction correction had already been issued to correct the transaction before the letter was sent to the
Relationship Manager so the decision did not prevent “the opportunity to process the transactions
correctly.”

e Finance Service Centre does not have access to transactional information to evidence a loss of connectivity
or the generation of disconnected session receipts. It is acknowledged that such visibility would enable a
more complete response to be available under business as usual enquiries of this nature.

Andy

Andy Winn Relationship Manager

} Finance Service Centre, 1 Future Walk, Chesterfield $49 1 PF

POL-0097370
