BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

HOS
OFFIGE

Impact Programme

BT & POL FS High Level

(Summary) Implementation Plan

(S80 Release)

Author(s)

Karen Rogers

Reviewer(s)

Chris Allen, Dawn Brooks, Debbie Brown, Mandy
Brown, Ann Clarke, Martin Cox, Julie Dart, Shaun
Delaney, Jamie Dixon, Martin Drake, Ben Gildersleve,
Steve Grayston, Keith Hall, Eddie Harris, Beverley
Hickey, Ed Hicks, Karen Hillsden, Rod Ismay, Mandy
Jepson, Peter Jones, Jill Kennedy, Alan Orpe, Sue
Reed, Jennifer Robson, Andy Terrett, Alvin West, Chris
Young.

Approver Torstein Godeseth (DA), Marc Reardon (RIT), Vicky
Noble (PBA/Finance), Ann Cruttenden (Operations),
Bob Lammin (NSS CLS), Sue Reed (HR), Tina Davis
(S&M).

Reference POL FS and Branch Trading Implementation Plan

Version 0.1

Operational PSO/S80/E2E/SOL/099A

Baseline No.

Status Draft

Classification

Date April 2005

Circulation (Info)

Linda Austin, Ijaz Bhatti, Philip Godden, Keith Lawless.

1

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986

POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

1 Document Control

1.1 Version History

VERSION DATE CHANGE DETAILS
0.1 Initial Draft

1.2 Change Control

All changes to this document are to be sent to the Change Controller, as
below:

Name Karen Rogers

Job Title BT & POL FS Implementation Manager
Business Address see ECD

Tel:

Email: Karen.Rogers

1.3 References / Related / Dependent / Parent Documents

Document I Title Version I Date
Reference

001 (PBA) Pre-Implementation Plan

002 $80 Data Migration October
003 (HR) People Change Specification

004 $80 Impact CBDB\OPTIP Data DRS80239Vv0.1

Retention and Archiving
Requirements

005 $80 Impact All Other Legacy
Systems Data Retention and
Archiving Requirements

006 Migration Strategy September 2004
007 Error Migration Strategy September 2004
008 High Level Implementation Plan I PSO/S80/E2E/ 27/01/05

$80 Impact - MI SOL/099B v1.0
009 Communications Plan
010 Technical Implementation Plan

Electronically Distributed Documents

Any problems, comments or improvement opportunities are to be sent to Change Controller
above. If not received direct, may wish to ensure it is the latest version by checking with the
‘Change Controller.

2
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

1 Document Control 2
1.1 Version History. .2
1.2 Change Contro! 2
1.3 References / Related / Dependent / Parent Documents. 2
1.4 Terms and Abbreviations. .4

2 — INCFOCUCTION............cceesseseseeesseeeesensesenaeceeneseeeesesaeseeaecessenecenseeaneneasenses 6

3 De FINItIONS........ eee eceessesetseseeseeseseeeseeeusnesecesecensesecesaususeseseenenausesesesen 6

4 Scope. a7

5 Inputs and Outputs. 8

6 ASSUMPTIONS... eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneneeeeseesenseeeseeseeeseeeaneenseeseeneenenenens 8

7 Implementation Stages... seeenseeeteeeeenens 9

71 Pre-implementation
7.2 Reference Data set-up & Horizon Data Centre Migration — (Component A,

7.3 Implement S80 on Horizon — (Component B, pt20).
74 Prepare POL FS Implementation — (Component C).
7.5 POL FS Implementation — (Component D, pt30).
7.6 POL FS Hangouts — (Component E)...
7.7 Enhanced MIS — (Component F, pt40).
7.8 Branches to Branch Trading — (Component G, pt50).
7.9  Non-Value Stock conversion to volume stock (Pt55),
7.10 HRSAP — (Component H)..........

7.11 Decommissioning - (Component I
7.12 Impact Programme Closure.

8 Management Reporting Requirements... 29
9 Issues and Risks.
10) — COMS traits... eseseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseeeeseeeesseeesseseeseseeeeeeseeseseeseneneane
11 Dependencies. ............escescescseeceeeeeeeeeseseeeeeeeseaseseesaseaeeaeeeeseeseneeaeeeeee
12 Way of Working

APP dix AQ... ceeecceseeeesceseeseeeeceeeesaesaeesesseeseeeaeeaeesaesaeeseseaseaseaeeeeeaeeaeees
Migration Strategy Timeline. ............cecceecececeseseeseeeseseseeeeseseseeseseseeeeeeecseeeneestaeeeeseseaeeeeeeetee 31

3

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

1.4 Terms and Abbreviations

Term Meaning

ATM Automated Teller Machine

BAU Business As Usual

BT Branch Trading

BTS Branch Trading Statement

CA Cash Account

CAP Cash Account Period

CBDB Counters Business DataBase

CLASS Client Ledgering And Settlement System

CLS Cash Logistics Solutions

CMO Calthorpe Model Office

DMB Directly Managed Branches

EPOSS Electronic Point of Sale Service

ESFS Enterprise System Finance System

FAD Financial Accounts Division (FAD Code)

Forex Foreign Exchange

HRSAP Human Resources SAP (system)

IRF Input Review Forum

IVR Interactive Voice Response

MI Management Information

MOP Method of Payment

MVL Motor Vehicle Licence

NBSC Network Business Support Centre

NSS Network Support Services

NSSC National Secure Stock Centre

PBA Product and Branch Accounting

RAB Release Authorisation Board

RDS Reference Data System

OBC Operational Business Change

OBC RDS Operational Business Change/Reference Data Service Team
(part of NS)

OLA Operational Level Agreement

ONCH Overnight Cash on Hand

POL Post Office Ltd

POL FS Post Office Ltd Financial System

pt Point

RIT Release Implementation Team

S&M Sales & Marketing

SAP. Systems Applications and Products (Systeme Anwendungen
Produkte In der Datenverarbeitung)

SAPADS SAP Advanced Distribution System

SLA Service Level Agreement

SST System Support Team (part of PBA)

STAMPS Stock Transfer and Movements Planning System

4

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

tbc To be confirmed
TMS Transaction Management System
TP Trading Period

5
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

2 Introduction

The purpose of this document is to provide visibility and understanding, to the
Impact Programme and relevant BAU domains, of a high-level business
implementation plan for BT and POL FS and the main activities for the initial
Pre-Implementation stage.

This document is largely derived from the Migration Strategy [ref 006] and
meetings held with business area representatives. It outlines the high-level
implementation approach that will govern and guide a lower level BT and
POL FS Implementation Plan.

Approval to the High Level Implementation Plan is agreement to the high-
level activities described below.

Note: This document refers to implementation and migration interchangeably.

3 Definitions

The Migration Strategy [006] refers to a number of BT and POL FS
‘Components’ and migration points. These are summarised here (see
Migration Strategy timeline in Appendix A), in addition to ‘new’ Components:

Related Component Point I Comment

Pre-Implementation - Implementation work done upfront prior
(New Component) to migration occurring

Reference Data Set-up pt05 I RDS80 set up with all required reference
(Component A) data to support S80 changes, including

Track and Trace and +1 Sales Prompts

pt10 Data Centre Migration:
Horizon Data Centre migrated to S80

Implement S80 on pt20 Rollout of S80 software release to
Horizon branches
(Component B)
- pt25 I Switch to new Horizon to POL FS
Interface
Preparation to Implement - Undertaking all necessary pre-
POL FS implementation tasks prior to POL FS
(Component C) Implementation e.g. loading balances
POL FS Implementation pt30 I POL FS (S80 build) goes live with
(Component D) interfaces and loading of balances
Handling hangouts from - Final CA information received from late
POL FS Implementation branches into CBDB
(Component E)
Switch on Enhanced MI pt40 I New MI system available. Feed into
(Component F) OPTIP ceases. Dependent upon last CAs
being received in CBDB.
Switch Branches to ptso Branches cease CA and move onto BT in
Branch Trading a phased approach
(Component G)
6

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Convert Non-Value Stock I pt55 I Conversion of Non-Value Stock to
to volume volume after all branches are on BT
(New Component)

Switch remuneration feed I pt60 I HRSAP receives feed from TMS for first

into HRSAP time

(Component H)

Decommissioning legacy I pt70 Decommissioning of the various legacy
systems systems

(Component 1)

Programme Closure = Closure of Impact Programme

(New Component)

4 Scope

The high-level plan scope includes:

1. All business change activities required to introduce BT & POL FS.

2. All business change activities that support the introduction of or have a
dependency upon technical changes.

3. Conversion of Non-Value Stock to volume stock post BT (excluding MVL,
Electric Tokens and Rod Fishing Licences which will be converted at
$90).

4. Changes in legacy systems required to support POL FS, including loading

data from legacy systems e.g. balances, and changes in processes e.g.

supporting Non-Value Stock conversion.

Implementing Impact Change Requests that result in business change.

Reference to ‘pre-implementation’ activities [ref 001].

Reference to Horizon and POL FS reference data changes [ref 002].

Reference to communication activities [ref 009].

Distribution of materials to branches and the NBSC, including training and

operational instructions.

10.Development of branch error scenarios and scripts for NBSC.

11.Dual running of Knowledgebase database as branches migrate from CA to
BT.

12. Training of NBSC in types of calls and changes to BT.

13.Reference to People Change activities [ref 003], including Cash Centres.

14. Reference to accessing MI with new data on transactions and events to
support management reporting during the implementation period.

15. Benefits management handover to relevant BAU domains.

16.BAU domains handover and acceptance of BT and POL FS into business
as usual.

OCONDH

Out of scope are:

Implementation of RDS80 and new the MI system.

Enhanced MI activity relating to Component F.

Design and development of systems and procedures.

System and End-to-End Testing, and User Assurance.

Technical delivery, including system interfaces and decommissioning.
Non Impact Programme S80 content, although where business
implementation activities are jointly undertaken, reference will be made.

QaARWON>

7
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

7. Model Office and Live Proving plans except with reference to the overall
context of business implementation activities.

8. Detailed descriptions of changes covered in other documents, such as
People Change, Decommissioning, Reference Data plan.

9. OLAs and SLAs agreement with suppliers.

10.Management of any changes to clients systems and client procedures due
to removal of CA.

11.Revised HRSAP interface.

5 Inputs and Outputs

The primary inputs into this document have been:

Migration Strategy [ref 006].

Various sessions with Impact Business Change team members and BAU
domains.

People Change Specification [ref 003].

Lessons learnt from Impact Release 1 (S60 Release).

Error Migration Strategy [007].

Relevant Impact Change Requests.

Call forecasting by NBSC.

Draft Counter Operations Manual and procedures.

N>

ONDA Ww

The outputs from this document are expected to be:

Lower-level BT & POL FS Implementation plan.

BT & POL FS Issues Log and Risk Register.
Assumptions relating to BT & POL FS Implementation.
Communications Plan.

POND

6 Assumptions
The assumptions used to produce this paper are:

1. POL FS S60 cash reconciliation has been proven and accepted.

2. All new procedures have been previously developed, tested and
approved.

3. All End-to-End testing activity regarding both migration and ‘steady
state’ functions are completed successfully.

4. Pre-implementation ‘Desired State’ is achieved via BAU processes.

5. All personnel allocated to new roles are in place and have been
trained to the required standards.

6. ‘CA’ referring forms are either replaced and/or workarounds developed
due to migration into BT.

7. Allclient systems requiring changes have been changed or
workarounds agreed and implementated.

8. Calthorpe House Model Office is available for 2 phases of live proving
sessions, covering S80 software release and BT migration.

9. NBSC, Dearne House receives the S80 software release and migrates
to BT prior to the rest of the network.

10.S80 software release rollout takes 6 weeks to complete.

8

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

11.All branches do not have to be on S80 and must not have completed
the ‘trigger’ CA prior to pt25;

12.OLA/SLAs are agreed before implementation.

13. Operational Focus articles and branch training and procedural material
are required during S80 software release and BT migration.

14.No proving of the new MI Reports to support migration/implementation
will occur at Pt 40.

15.CBDB will remain until December 2005 and data then archived as
agreed.

16. After the IRF decision following BT pilot, reference data soft launch
product can be rolled out in time to rest of network.

PBA will have the necessary resource available to deal with TC
enquiries from branches.

17. The S90 Release, which will implement the changes necessary to
support the migration of MVL, Electric Tokens and Rod Fishing
Licences from Non-Value Stock to controlled stock products, will occur
in Jan/Feb 2006.

18.BAU domains agree Impact People Change Specification.

19.POL accepts a level of service degredation at the NBSC during the
migration phase due to the limited funds available for POL support.

7 Implementation Stages
The Migration Strategy paper’s [ref 006] components for migrating to BT are
considered below in addition to some new components. The components are

referred to as stages and their related high-level implementation activities are
described below.

7.1 Pre-implementation

Implementation Team

Key communication dates and messages will be identified and agreed.
Communication material used in Face-to-Face events will be supplied to NS
before the events are held, so that call scripts can be developed and any
queries answered.

$80 Soft Launch branches will be identified, agreed and passed to the
OBC/RDS Team and Release Implementation Team.

Management Information requirements for the migration/implementation
phase will be defined and passed to the SSP Team.

An approach to dealing with branches that may perform late or early CAs
during the POL FS Implementation period will be considered to support the
current BAU process.

Details of the POL FS cutover plan will be developed and agreed.

The potential for both a stock and bureau embargo to support a smooth
cutover from legacy systems to POL FS will be explored with all relevant
parties.

9

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Scenario planning will consider exception scenarios at pt20, pt30 and pt50,
enabling development of the appropriate procedures.

There is an opportunity for messages to appear on Horizon at the counter
when users select certain buttons, thus negating or reducing the need for
branches to call the NBSC. These buttons will be enabled by the +1 Sales
Prompts facility. The key buttons and appropriate messages will be defined
and provided to the +1 Sales Prompts Project Manager for inclusion in +1
Sales Prompts reference data.

Client and branch forms that refer to Cash Account will either be considered
for change (re-print) or workarounds developed.

The National Implementation Equipment Team will be advised that the
‘Miman’ Horizon facility will be removed during S80.

A Benefits Plan and Handover document will also be produced and agreed
with BAU domains in the run up to the S80 Release.

POSC Salford will be informed of branch Sales Report changes arising from
the S80 software release as there may be an increase in remuneration calls.

Finance

A ‘Desired State’ will have been agreed regarding what position branches
should be in prior to the start of S80. This will focus on:

Reducing the amounts held in Suspense accounts;
Bringing error notices to account;

Making good discrepancies each week;

Ensuring branches are in the correct CA week.

PONS

A plan will be developed by PBA to drive branches and PBA to the Desired
State, with support expected from other BAU domains, such as Operations
and Network Support. PBA will provide regular updates of how the move to
the Desired State is progressing.

There will be a review of how up to date the return stock forms are from
Hemel, and actions agreed to bring these up to date as required for POL FS
Implementation.

Development of the necessary approaches and requirements for migration at
pt30 will occur. This will confirm the migration approaches and the
development of appropriate interim training and procedures. Approaches will
need to be developed for Financial Year End and pt30 for the loading of
ledger balances (such as client, debtor, creditor, agents suspense and cash),
the migration of supporting documents, such as EDS, and defining and
agreeing the ‘open items’ to be brought forward. This should be completed in
time to allow for any necessary system development and testing.

10

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

The Finance Assurance Group will determine the assurance activities
required to confirm that POL FS is ready to go-live.

PBA will review branch and Cash Centre control requirements required post
ptso.

To support the Desired State, the Agents’ Losses and Gains policy regarding
authority to hold will reduced from 8 weeks to 4 weeks.

Discussions will commence between NSS (CLS) and PBA on the handover of
Cash Centre discrepancy procedures regarding (shortage/surplus for Forex
and shortage for cash), Scottish notes and Coins to Royal Mint.

Network Support

There will be a review of how up to date the return stock forms are from
Hemel to PBA and actions will be taken to clear any backlog in time for POL
FS Implementation.

NS will support PBA if required in making outbound calls to branches to clear
out Suspense Accounts, bringing error notices to account and rolling
balancing discrepancies, thereby achieving the ‘Desired State’.

There will be a review of possible call volumes expected during S80 software
release rollout and BT migration.

There will be a review of the expected resource levels required in NBSC after
BT implementation, considering only allocated Groups of branches will
perform balancing activities during a given week rather than the entire
network.

Call categories and scripts will be developed in anticipation of calls raised by
branches following Face-to-Face events. The Impact Communications
Manager will supply NBSC with the communication material prior to the
events. The Knowledgebase database will be updated accordingly.

Forms referring to ‘Cash Account’ will have been identified that can either be
replaced or workarounds developed. The Logistics Team will co-ordinate the
production of new forms and the removal destruction of other forms in
Swindon and branches.

Network Support Services (CLS)

Discussions will commence with PBA on the handover of procedures
currently performed by Cash Centres regarding the transfer of discrepancies
(Forex shortage and surplus and cash shortage ), Scottish notes and Coins to
Royal Mint.

11

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

SAPADS enhancements will be ready to go into production and where
possible new changes will be introduced prior to pt30, such as new
discrepancy procedures for cash and Forex. SAPADS changes will also
incorporate the CA system changes to support POL FS interface.

The Cash Centre training package will be agreed to support the technical
development of SAPADS 4.2. The training will begin to be rolled out across
the Cash Centres and Finance Teams.

Note: Forex will be migrated from STAMPS onto SAPADS in April 2005, with
the SAPADS Impact associated changes being switched on pt30, or earlier, if
feasible.

Network Operations

Reference data to support branch Groupings will be defined and provided to
the End-to-End Testing Team. Revised reference data will be provided prior
to implementation.

Visits to a variety of branches will take place to understand the impact on
current procedures.

Sales & Marketing

A client communications approach will be agreed, which will confirm how and
when clients will be communicated to.

Clients will be informed of the proposed changes affecting their products.
System and process changes will be identified. These changes may result in
contract amendments.

Client Horizon ‘Cash Account’ reports will be identified and any necessary
technical Change Requests progressed by the Design Authority. ‘Cash
Account’ referring non-Horizon forms that require changing will be identified.
The forms will be re-printed, or workarounds developed for an interim period
until the next print run when the reference to ‘Cash Account’ will be removed.

7.2. Reference Data set-up & Horizon Data Centre Migration —
(Component A, pt05 & pt10)

RABI/IRF Decision Point

A RAB and IRF decision will be required prior to the Horizon Data Centre
upgrade.

Implementation

A Live Proving plan will be produced and agreed for the S80 Soft Launch.

A list of the Branch Groups and the BT Calendar will be supplied to
OBC/RDS Team for inputting into Reference Data.

12

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

A list of the possible scenarios that may occur when branches receive S80
software and when they migrate to BT will be supplied to NS for scripts to be
developed.

The Flash screen and Operational Focus articles used to communicate the
S80 software rollout changes to the branches will be developed, agreed and
issued to Network Support Services.

The S80 software release and +1 Sales Prompt messages to support
migration/implementation will be passed to the +1 Sales Prompts Project
Manager.

Ways of working and how issues will be dealt with during the S80 software
release will be agreed with Problem Management.

Work will start on defining the critical success factors for BT migration.
The Fujitsu Data Centre will be migrated to S80.
Design Authority

The Impact Design Authority will supply all of the necessary mappings, e.g.
for products.

Supplier SLAs and OLAs will be developed with input from NSS. These will
be reviewed at an appropriate Supplier Service Review meeting.

Finance

The System Support Team (SST) will key in the Horizon reference data
changes and also the POL FS reference data changes, such as the Chart of
Accounts.

SST will confirm with the Release Implementation Team the level of
involvement during the Data Centre upgrade and will provide feedback on the
S80 Data Centre upgrade, as required.

There will be a review of the ‘Desired State’ against predefined success
criteria; where deemed appropriate, further actions will be agreed and
implemented to tackle any remaining problem areas.

PBA activities to implement the various migration approaches will be
identified and agreed; these approaches will include pt30 activities and
specific activities to support the period between pt30 and pt50.

PBA will take over the ownership from NSS of Cash Centre discrepancy
procedures for cash shortages and Forex shortages and surpluses.

Network Support

13

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

The Type C reference data previously managed by Fujitsu Services will move
into POL as Type A, and this will be keyed and verified by SST and the
OBC/RDS Teams.

The OBC/RDS Team will verify the Horizon reference data changes.

+1 Sales Prompts and Track and Trace reference data activities will also take
place at the same time as the Impact changes. For more details see S80 Data
Migration document [ref 002].

Slots at Swindon will be booked 13 weeks prior to the arrival of branch
migration materials, such as procedures material and any revised
client/branch forms. Swindon will receive materials for the S80 software
release and prepare these for despatch at the appropriate time.

Change control will be introduced to manage any changes to the branch
Groups, including any new or closed branches, as well as FAD code
changes.

Scripts will be in place at the NBSC prior to the S80 software release and the
+1 Sales Prompt pilot. The Knowledgebase database will be updated
accordingly.

NBSC contingency plans will be developed to deal with an unexpectedly high
increase in call volumes.

Network Support will receive a list of Soft Launch branches from the Release
Implementation Team.

Network Support Services (CLS)

Cash Centres will handover the management of cash shortages and Forex
shortages and surpluses discrepancy procedures to PBA.

Network Operations
The list of branch Groupings will have been developed and agreed.

7.3. Implement S80 on Horizon — (Component B, pt20)

RABIIRF Decision Point

An IRF decision will be required prior to distribution of S80 software to CMO.
A RAB decision will be required prior to national rollout of the S80 software

release.

Implementation Team

14

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Soft Launch branches selected by Fujitsu will be agreed with Operations.
This will be a mix of branch configurations; some branches will also pilot +1
Sales Prompts.

Reference Data will be distributed to all branches after the Data Centre is
upgraded and before S80 software release.

CMO live proving activities will be performed to prove the S80 software
changes in a live environment.

Live terminals at Dearne House will be upgraded to the S80 release.

The Impact changes will be communicated to branches via an Operational
Focus article. A ‘Flash Screen’ message will advise users of receipt of the
S80 release software.

$80 release software will be distributed to Soft Launch branches, some of
which will also pilot +1 Sales Prompts. The branches will include a number of
different branch configurations.

A review of the Soft Launch will take place with Operations and NS.
Requirements for workarounds and/or key messages will be developed prior
to the rest of the network receiving the release.

The Impact Programme will visit by appointment some Soft Launch branches
to gain first hand feedback on the release.

Impact personnel will support NBSC in developing any additional scripts or
workarounds for national rollout.

Provided that Soft Launch is successful, standard S80 software release will
occur. The distribution will be monitored in conjunction with Fujitsu. There will
also have been monitoring of Reference Data roll out to all branches via
Fujitsu Services reports.

Finance

There is no impact on PBA as a result of the Impact elements of the S80 Soft
Launch/national rollout.

Network Support
Dearne House will migrate to S80 shortly after CMO is upgraded.
Scripts previously in place prior to the S80 software release will be reviewed

and amended as necessary at the end of the Soft Launch period.

Network Support Services (CLS)

15

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

There is no impact on NSS (CLS) at pt20.
Network Operations

The Soft Launch branches will receive the S80 software prior to the national
release, as per the normal release Soft Launch approach.

An Operational Focus article will inform branches of the changes in the S80
release. This will be supported by a ‘Flash Screen’ message that will appear
once the new S80 software is received at the branch.

[tbc] The Impact team will visit by appointment some Soft Launch branches at
the end of their first week; feedback collected will be considered for
confirming what key messages and workarounds are required for the national
release.

Sales & Marketing

There is no impact on Sales & Marketing as a result of the Impact elements of
the S80 Soft Launch/national rollout.

7.4 Prepare POL FS Implementation — (Component C)

RABI/IRF decision point

A RAB decision will be required prior to confirm that POL FS Implementation
can proceed.

Implementation Team

(tbc) Appropriate communications will be issued to ensure branches and
other relevant parties are aware that despatches will not take place during the
agreed stock embargo and Bureau embargo periods.

Finance

PBA will commence collecting the necessary Period End figures for closing
balances for 2004/05 and Period End balances for transaction and settlement
ledgers from CBDB (CLASS) until pt30.

Prism will support the loading of key balances from the legacy systems into
POL FS.

PBA will provide Prism with a list of POL FS users and the access levels
required.

Key PBA users who will work on POL FS immediately after cutover will be
identified and trained. (Non-key users will be trained following cutover to POL
FS).

16

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

The assurance activities previously determined by the Finance Assurance
Group will take place to ensure that S80 POL FS ledgers are populated as
expected from the new interfaces and that POL FS can hold large amounts of
transactional data.

POL FS opening figures from branches will be based on the wk 22 CA, which
is due for completion at pt30. The POL FS $80 interface will be available
from pt25 to capture opening figures from branches that complete the wk 22
CA early. Branch opening figures must be received in POL FS prior to pt40
when the new MI system is implemented. PBA will monitor production of
branch CAs to ensure that branches complete the wk 22 CA between pt25 to
pt40o.

Reports will be defined to enable PBA to prove that data between CBDB and
POL FS is correct.

NSSC will pass opening stock balances to POL FS.

The data for MVLs, Rod Fishing Licences and Electric Tokens will be
removed from POL FS.

PBA will monitor Non-Value Stock, as CBDB will no longer receive sales
values.

Network Support

(tbc) NS will support the stock and Bureau embargoes by ensuring that there
are no movements between Hemel and Crusader Houses and branches
during the agreed embargo periods.

Network Support Services (CLS)

SAPADS system changes will occur support to support the introduction of
POL FS. These changes will be in 2 phases;
« Phase 1 - any changes that can be introduced earlier than the POL FS
go-live date;
« Phase 2 - changes that can only be introduced once POL FS goes live
e.g. the discrepancy process and voucher write-off process.

Network Operations

Branches must complete a wk 22 CA at pt30.

Branches will continue to undertake stock reconciliation processes for Non-
Value Stock until it converts to volume at pt55 or, for MVLs, Rod Fishing

Licences and Electric Tokens, at S90.

(tbc) Branches will support the agreed stock and Bureau embargo by
remitting in stock receipts prior to the embargo period and not returning stock

17

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

during the embargo period. Stock must only be ordered in cases of absolute
business critical need.

Sales & Marketing

As per the current CBDB process, A&L transactions for branches in advance
of the wk 22 CA will be held in POL FS and transmitted with the bulk of wk 22
transactions i.e. 10 days after the end of wk 22. The paper stream sent from
branches to A&L will continue to be sent to A&L on a daily basis, as per the
current counter process.

HR

HRSAP will no longer be fed by CBDB - TMS will start accumulating data for
HRSAP based on defined pay periods.

7.5 POL FS Implementation — (Component D, pt30)

Implementation

Pt30 will occur at CA the end of Period 5 - POL FS will commence receiving
daily data from branches and other interfaces, such as SAPADS from pt30.

The feed from CBDB to HRSAP will cease - HRSAP will receive feeds for
agent remuneration from TMS, which will start accumulating data for HRSAP
based on defined pay periods, although this data will not pass through until pt
60.

Finance

CBDB will receive CA data from branches based on the wk 22 CAP; this is
the last CA week that CBDB will receive data for.

POL FS will become operational and the main POL financial system,
replacing the legacy systems.

PBA will commence proving POL FS against legacy systems figures. POL FS

will receive:

1. Foreign Exchange in Hand (data supplied - quantity of foreign currency,
Sterling equivalent);

2. Stocks — both balance sheet and non balance sheet (data supplied -
quantity of stock);

3. Suspense, discrepancy and other products that form part of the Branch on
hand values (data supplied — value).

The above figures will be reconciled and proved against the legacy systems.
POL FS opening positions will be based on the closing CA position, residual
client balances, bank info etc from CBDB and branch CA Table 5 details.

18

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Data from clients will continue to be received in legacy systems if the data is
for wk 22 or earlier.

PBA will continue to receive and process supporting documents from
branches and clients, some of which will be from many weeks previous. This
includes the weekly brown pouch from branches.

PBA will continue to monitor CA production in branches and ensure that all
branches complete the wk 22 Cash Account prior to pt40.

POL FS interfaces to NS&I and A&L will be switched on.

Any errors that have not been issued or dealt with up to pt30 will be migrated
onto two ledgers in POL FS. These will continue to be issued as Error
Notices to branches until the branches have migrated to BT, when TCs can
be released. Errors occurring between pt30 and pt50 will be stored in POL FS
as TCs, but not issued until an agreed point after Pt 50.

CBDB will supply SAPADS with payment information as used by Flexible
Planning between pt25 and completion of POL FS Hangouts, at the same
time as POL FS, to cater for branches in an incorrect CA week.

Fujitsu Services will undertake end-to-end data integrity checks between POL
FS and the legacy systems, to ensure that the data has passed without
corruption and into the correct ledgers. This is a technical activity and will
prove that the feeds are correct and meet PBA’s Critical Success Factors.

NSS will no longer supply 16/20Ds to PBA immediately after pt30 as this
information will be obtained from POL FS.

CBDB will remain operational until December 2005. PBA may make
adjustments to the data in CBDB for periods prior to cutover to POL FS,
provided that the adjustments do not affect the ledger figures.

Network Support

There is no impact on NS during POL FS implementation. Queries from POL
FS users will be made to Systemline, as per the existing process.

Network Support Services (CLS)

CBDB will continue with the supply of the payment information into SAPADS
for Flexible Planning at the same time as POL FS, from pt25 until POL FS
Hangouts completes.

The enhanced SAPADS interface 4.4 system changes implemented at pt30
will involve new transactions such as Forex uplifted to POL FS. Flexible
Planning will still receive generated and declared cash figures.

19

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

16/20Ds produced by Cash Centres will continue for audit purposes, but will
not be issued to PBA from pt30 as POL FS will provide this information.

Voucher changes will also occur. Vouchers to Cash Account, created by
Cash Centres, will no longer be in one general ledger account: this involves
postal orders and Road Vehicle Licence stamps. Vouchers Write Off Process
will also change, whereby vouchers will be transferred to POL FS and will no
longer be held in suspense in Cash Centre Cash Account.

Cash Centre manuals will be updated due to procedural changes, such as the
dual inputting of ATM Services into Cashman and SAPADS in Cash Centres,
(the latter so that this information can be received into POL FS).

Network Operations

Branches that have not performed a wk 22 CA at pt30 will have until pt40 to
do this. No dispensations will have been given to branches to miss this CA as
it is a Period End, when a CA must be produced.

Branches will continue to produce a weekly CA and send the weekly brown
pouch to PBA. However, the Horizon data will not be received in POL FS and
the brown pouches will not be opened or actioned by PBA.

Sales & Marketing

There will be a last feed from CBDB to clients’ systems based on the wk 22
CA. The interface from pt30 onwards will be from POL FS.

Clients will continue to send data to the legacy systems if the data is for wk
22 or earlier.

Data received from clients for settlement purposes, where settlement is made
on clients’ data rather than POL data, will be loaded into POL FS rather than
into CBDB. New error resolution processes with clients will commence.

7.6 POL FS Hangouts — (Component E)

Implementation

Implementation of the new MI system at pt40 will be delayed if all branches
have not completed the wk 22 CA by the agreed date for pt40
implementation. Feedback will be provided by PBA to confirm that all
branches have completed the wk 22 CA. If this cannot be achieved,
appropriate actions will be agreed.

Finance
PBA will continue to monitor CA production in branches and ensure that all

branches complete the wk 22 CA prior to pt40. Progress will be reported to
the Implementation Team.

20

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Training on POL FS will continue for those users not yet trained.
Network Support
Support may be required to assist in chasing late CA branches.

The NBSC may start to receive calls from branches regarding their migration
to BT.

Network Support Services (CLS)

There is no impact to CLS during this period.

Network Operations

(tbc) Support may be required to assist in completion of residual wk 22 CAs.
Sales & Marketing

There is no impact to Sales & Marketing during this period.

7.7 Enhanced MIS — (Component F, pt40)

Implementation of the new MI system will occur at the same time as POL FS
Hangouts completes. The detail of the implementation is covered in the MI
High-Level Implementation Plan [ref 008].

Implementation

Mi reports will be available to confirm whether branches have completed their
BTS at the appropriate time, once branches have moved to BT at pt50.

Finance

When the final ‘late’ branch performs its wk 22 CA, the transactional feed into

OPTIP will cease and all transactions from branches will flow into the new MI

system.

The new MI system will provide all branch transactional data based on POL’s

MI requirements and will be accessed by users within PBA and other parts of

POL.

PBA will receive details listing the branch rollout at pt50 so that TCs can be
released to branches after migration to BT.

Network Support

21

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Reports will be made available via MI to monitor completion of Branch

Trading Statements according to the appropriate ‘branch off-set’. Branches

that get ‘out of sync’ will be managed by the agreed ’42 day’ process .
Network Support Services (CLS)

There is impact on NSS (CLS) from a BT or POL FS implementation
perspective.

Network Operations

There is no impact on Network Operations from a BT or POL FS
implementation perspective.

Sales & Marketing

There is no impact on Sales & Marketing from a BT or POL FS
implementation perspective.

7.8 Branches to Branch Trading — (Component G, pt50)

RABI/IRF decision point

An IRF decision will be required to confirm that BT pilot and rollout can
commence.

Key dates

Group -—in I Last ever Into First BT Trading

date order I CA Trading I Statement Period of
Period first BT

Statement

Pilot (from 14/09/05 6 21/09/05 6

Group C)

Approx.

4,000

branches

1st Group 28/09/05 8 02/11/05 8

2nd Group _I 05/10/05 8 09/11/05 8

3rd Group 12/10/05 8 16/11/05 8

4th Group 26/10/05 8 23/11/05 8

Implementation

CMO live proving takes place for Cash Account migration to BT. This will be

based on a previously agreed Live Proving plan.

Training materials for pilot groups will be despatched directly from the

printers. (tbc) All Impact materials for rollout Groups will be despatched in a

dedicated ‘Impact’ migration pack two weeks prior to their last ever CA.

22

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Soft Launch reference data will be released to branches to control BT
migration.

As branches will migrate to BT based on rolling into a specific CA week,
branches in an incorrect CA week will not migrate on the day expected.
Branches in future CA weeks must not be forward by more than a few weeks,
otherwise they will move to BT before supporting materials arrive.

Branches from Group C will pilot BT, prior to migrating the rest of the network.
The pilot will include some DMBs, although in steady state these will be ina
different BT Group compared to the pilot branches. These DMBs be migrated
to their correct Group at an agreed time after pt50. The remaining migration
will be based on branches in their allocated Groups.

After their last CA branches will roll into the relevant TP associated with that
CA week.

Procedures will be supplied to branches to confirm that the ‘balance carried
forward’ in the last CA reconciles with the ‘balance brought forward’ following
migration to BT, should the branch wish to undertake a reconciliation. If
discrepancies exist, branches should ‘make good’ straight away: if they do
not ‘make good’ at this point, then this will need to be completed before the
first BTS is produced.

Pilot branches will be required to complete a BTS 1 week after migrating to
BT. Rollout branches, however, will go into the normal TP cycle, meaning that
a BTS will not produced until 4 or 5 weeks later.

After pilot branches perform their first ever BTS reference data will be
released to the next branch Group. Due to the short timescales in rolling out
the reference data it may not be possible for all branches in the first migration
Group to receive the reference data in time to complete their last ever CA at
the correct time. If the reference data is not received prior to the designated
migration date, then migration will be triggered following receipt of the
reference data and following individual stock unit rollover into the next CA
week: Due to the nature of the soft launch reference data product, migration
will occur when individual stock units roll into the designated CA week. If a
stock unit has completed the designated CA prior to receipt of the reference
data, then the stock unit will not migrate into BT until a subsequent CA has
been completed. This scenario will require careful communication to
branches as there is the potential for some stock units to migrate into BT
whilst others remain in CA mode.

A review will take place during the week-long pilot period. On-going reviews
will also take place during the national rollout period. Data will be gathered
from various sources, including visits to branches, if feasible. The reviews will
consider:

23

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

1. Training and Operating Instructions materials used by pilot branches and
if there is a need to amend.

2. Branch behaviours having performed a last CA, and not completing a BTS
every week, as well as dealing with TCs.

3. Issues, risks and contingencies on an on going basis.

4. Typical questions and scenarios that branches raise and the relevant
actions required to reduce/eliminate similar questions and scenarios.

5. Whether changes to communications or new communications are
required.

Impact personnel will also attend NBSC to assist with calls coming from the
pilot branches during both the last CA and the first BTS production.

NS call volumes and types will be monitored during pilot and rollout. Actions
will be taken, such as developing key messages or workarounds, based on
calls and issues being raised and from branch visits.

Addendums will be produced where deemed necessary for correcting or
clarifying branch instructions, as identified from issues and queries being
raised by branches. It may be possible for the addendums to be issued to the
latter rollout Groups at the same time as their primary materials are
despatched. Earlier Groups may require special one-off despatches.

At a point during migration and as previously agreed, Impact will hand over to
NS Problem Management any issues under business as usual. Impact will
remain responsible for branch migration until completion of rollout.

Finance

Some vouchers will cease when branches migrate to BT. Vouchers to TP will
also cease at this point.

TCs will be issued depending on the type of ‘error’ and when the error
originally occurred:

Errors pre pt30: Issued as Error Notices until pt50;
Anything issued but outstanding at pt50 will be
issued as TCs immediately after a branch has
migrated to BT

Errors pt30 — pt50 Stored ready for issuing as TCs at an agreed point
post-pt50

Errors from Pt50 onwards Issued as TCs at an agreed point post-Pt50

Items where buttons TCs issued immediately at pt50.
removed from Suspense

Values in Suspense Accounts at pt50 and errors issued but not brought to
account, or outstanding errors prior to pt30 will be converted to TCs and

24

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

issued to branches the week following a branch performing its last ever CA.
Branches will have 3-4 weeks to process these prior to completing their first
BTS.

There may be an increase in calls to PBA to question why the TCs are being
issued. This may require additional PBA resource.

There will be a re-organisation of personnel in PBA, based on the People
Change plan [ref 003], as a consequence of the introduction of POL FS and
the cessation of operating the legacy systems.

PBA will cease printing Cash Centres Cash Account statements as this
information will be sent via the enhanced SAPADS to POL FS interface.

PBA will continue to receive the LS1 forms from branches until Local
Schemes Non-Value Stock is converted to volume at pt55.

PBA will review the activities required to support branch and Cash Centre
control post pt50.

Network Support

NS will require access to a list of branch Groups and their rollout dates, as
well as the expected TPs that branches are to migrate into.

Materials will be issued by Swindon 2 weeks before each of the Groups
complete their last ever Cash Account.

Swindon will destroy ‘Cash Account’ branch/client forms that are no longer
required.

The remaining counters at Dearne will migrate to BT.

The OBC/RDS Team will release the soft launch reference data products to
enable pilot and rollout branches to migrate, as per the dates in the Low-
Level Branch Trading and POL FS Migration/Implementation plan (to be
agreed).

Scripts and scenarios will be produced to support the pilot and rollout. The
Knowledgebase database will be revised to contain references to both CAt
and BT during BT migration.

Calls are expected to increase during pt50 migration as a result of:

1. Receipt of training materials into branches.

2. Last ever CA and reconciliation of the balance carried forward in the CA to
the balance brought forward in BT mode.

3. The first Monday following the last ever CA, when TCs are received for
the first time.

25

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

4. The first Wednesday/Thursday after the last ever CA, when branches
migrating are not required to do any balancing activity (with the exception
of pilot branches who will complete their first BTS one week after
migrating to BT).

5. First time a branch completes a BTS.

A degradation in service is anticipated at the NBSC during the
migration/rollout period, due to the high number of calls anticipated. This is
likely to require the implementation of contingency measures. IVR and voice
portal facilities will be implemented to assist in answering calls during this
period.

Call scripts, scenarios and the Knowledgebase database will be reviewed
after the pilot branches complete their last ever CA and during the period
following the completion of the BTS for the first rollout Group. There will be
on-going reviews thereafter.

Management Information will be produced by the SSP team in NSS to support
the migration/rollout period.

At a point during migration and as previously agreed, Problem Management
will assume responsibility for problems that arise following migration.
However, Impact will remain responsible for branch migration until completion
of rollout.

At the end of BT migration, the dual running of the Knowledgebase database
will cease. CA information will be removed from the database and any other
reference sources used by the NS teams.

Network Support Services (CLS)

Most vouchers will cease being issued to Cash Centres from branches when
a branch moves to BT, such as those relating to losses/gains, discrepancies
in shortages and surpluses for cash, Forex and stock. These will be replaced
by TCs. The only ones to remain for inputting into SAPADS are for those in
Northern Ireland:

1. Redeemed Postal Orders for Bank of Ireland;

2. Ulster Savings Certificate Warrants;

3. Vehicle Trading Licence Stamps.

(tbc) Cash Centres cease issuing 16/20Ds to PBA at pt50.

Flexible Planning will continue to receive the generated and declared cash
figures. Branches will continue to declare cash as part of the mandatory
process.

Network Operations

26

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Branches will not be able to move any values into and out of certain
Suspense Account lines from pt50. These can only be removed by
processing appropriate TCS issued by PBA.

Any balancing discrepancies under BT will be transferred into the Local
Suspense account. This will need to be cleared before a BTS can be
produced.

TC will be issued to branches the week according to the order shown in
paragraph 7.7 Finance.

Branches will continue to complete a daily and weekly despatch of summaries
and dockets, unless changed by BAU product simplification.

Most value stock will convert automatically to volume following production of
the last ever cash CA (NB. ‘Other Postage’ and Bureau will remain as value
stock). Branches may perform a one-off reconciliation to satisfy themselves

that the new volumes are correct at following migration to BT.

Controlled stock will still be displayed on Horizon on the ‘Adjust Stock’
screen. Other Stock and MOP values will disappear and be replaced by a set
of stock volumes on Balance Reports. Value figures will remain on Stock Unit
Balances Reports, but this will not include stock. The need for manual
reconciliation for the set of Non-value Stock products (Local Schemes, MVL,
Rod Fishing Licences or Electric Tokens) will continue until these are
converted to volume at pt 55 or S90 respectively.

Branches will no longer use the ‘CA Calendar’; this will be replaced by a
wallchart planner (design to be confirmed).

As soon as a branch migrates into BT, the ‘42-day’ process will begin and
branches will be monitored to ensure that they produce their BTS as planned.

Ideally, product revaluations should not occur from the time of pt30 to the last
branch Group performing their first BTS. Should a product revaluation occur,
branches on BT will ignore the Horizon messages and branches on CA will
perform a revaluation as they currently do now. (NB. POL FS will not be
impacted by a revaluation exercise.)

Messages will appear on key Horizon key buttons to assist branches in
working within BT mode. These will be based on +1 Sales Prompts approach
and will aim to divert calls away from the NBSC by providing branches with
immediate and local reference.

Auditors can continue to perform Final Accounts for branches that are
closing. However, to avoid branches rolling incorrectly into the next TP, a
Branch Period Rollover will be performed, rather than full a BTS.

27

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Branches will use new client forms that do not refer to ‘Cash Account’ or will
operate workarounds until existing forms are replaced. Forms no longer
required will be destroyed.

Sales & Marketing

Branches will use new client forms that do not refer to ‘Cash Account’ or will
operate workarounds until existing forms are replaced. Forms no longer
required will be destroyed in branches and Swindon.

Weekly reconciliation for clients will remain Wednesday to Tuesday.

Client contracts may need to be changed after POL FS and BT migration, for
example, to reflect the removal of CA weeks.

7.9 Non-Value Stock conversion to volume stock (Pt55)

RABIIRF decision point

There is no RAB or IRF decision as this is an OBC change which will be
managed by Sales & Marketing.

Non-Value Stock will be converted to volume stock after BT migration
completes. This is currently planned for 31 October 2005. MVL, Rod Fishing
Licences and Electric Tokens are excluded from this approach as they will
convert to volume stock at S90. The remaining Non-Value Stock, primarily
Local Schemes, will be converted to volume via the OBC process after all
branches are on BT.

Branches will ‘Rem In’ existing Non-Value Stock on Horizon so that the
volumes are recorded as volume stock. Completion and despatch of LS1
forms to PBA will cease at this point.

The interim PBA process for reconciling Non-Value Stock following POL FS
Implementation will cease.

7.10 HRSAP — (Component H)

Implementation
TMS will feed HRSAP for the first time, 1 month after pt30.
POL FS will receive an electronic interface to ESFS, 2 months after pt30.

These technical changes will be documented in the Technical Implementation
Plan, [ref 010].

Note: The correct information and timing is essential to ensure remuneration

to branches remains accurate following POL FS Implementation.

28

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
POL00038986

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

7.11 Decommissioning — (Component I)

Decommissioning of legacy systems is out of scope of this document. The
detail can be found in the relevant Decommissioning Plans [refs 004 & 005].

7.12 Impact Programme Closure

This will occur when all Components have been completed, the detail of
which will be included in a specific Closure document that will be approved by
the Programme Board.

8 Management Reporting Requirements

The likely requirements for management reporting during the
migration/implementation phase are shown below. (NB. Some of these
requirements will also be required during steady state).

Software release migration (tail management) to branches.

CAP conformance in branches — including future and late CAPs.

Last CBDB balance figures.

Calls to Systemline by POL FS users.

POL FS system down times.

Number of TC problems raised to PBA — to identify workload and how
many branches are requesting evidence compared to Error Notices.
Number of incidents and problems, including types, raised by branches.
Number of branches not performing a BTS.

Number of branches performing a BTS but doing more than required.

QaARWN>

DON

Note: Agreements will be undertaken to source this information; where
information is not available without significant resource or cost the
information may not be provided.

9 Issues and Risks

Issues and risks relating to Branch Trading and POL FS Implementation are
contained in the BT and POL FS Implementation Issues and Risks Logs. The
latest version of these logs can be obtained from the Impact Document
Library.

10 Constraints
The high-level constraints during implementation are:

1. Costs: Business Change budget available to spend on implementation
activities, such as additional staff at NBSC.

2. Time: BT rollout needs to complete prior to Christmas pressure starting.

3. Resource: PBA resource will need to be split between managing the run
down of the legacy systems, such as dealing with late supporting
documents, and operating POL FS.

4. Timing of the S90 release.

5. Outcome of the Retail Line Review.

29

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

11 Dependencies

The high-level dependencies that affect and are affected by the project are
summarised below:

1. Cash has been reconciled on POL FS from S60 Launch.

Migration activities have been tested successfully by Testing Team.

Pre-implementation activities being completed and the Desired State

being reached before implementation commences.

POL FS cutover can only at a Period End.

No branch must roll into or past pt30 CAP week before pt25 occurs.

BT can rollout only after POL FS pt30 occurs.

New MI system is available, via the MI Project, to support the migration,

such as the ‘42-day’ report showing branches that have not completed a

Trading Statement within the past 42 days.

8. BAU personnel available to support the Impact changes, such as dual
running of systems and reports during migration.

9. Conversion of Non-Value Stock to volume stock cannot occur until all
branches are on Branch Trading.

10.All branches with the same Non-Value Stock items must be converted to
volume stock at the same time.

On

NOs

12 Way of Working

The BT & POL FS Implementation Manager will chair a Migration Meeting
with identified attendees on a regular basis. This will be the main channel in
which to obtain updates on progress, issues and risks. The attendees at this
meeting will be reviewed and new persons invited during the project lifecycle
as required.

The Implementation Manager will maintain the BT & POL FS Implementation
project plan and associated issues and risks logs.

Other meetings are also expected to occur on a regular basis:

Stock Update meeting, to gain visibility of migration requirements and
progress. Chaired by the BT & POL FS Implementation Manager and
attended by the Finance Change Manager, Stock Supply Chain Manager,
SAPADS Project Manager and Finance Project Manger (Stock)

30

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan

Appendix A

Migration Strategy Timeline

DRAFT

WORK IN
PROGRESS

DRAFT

WORK IN
PROGRESS

31

BT & POL FS High Level (Summary) Implementation Plan v0.1

POL00038986
