POL00145915

POL00145915

From:
Sent:
To:

Subject:

Mark R Davies}
Fri 16/08/2013 12

la Van-Den-Boge!

lorizon National Media Enquiries

To be aware of likely horizon related coverage inertia tomorrow.

Mark

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Ruth X Barker
Date: 16 August 2013 I
i Susan Crichton

Angela Van-Den-Bogerd {

In terms of our response to the Mail and Mirror which are both asking v similar
questions. i.e. Tom Brown and Susan Knight cases have both been dropped in the last
10 days. Is this a result of the interim report or is it a coincidence? Also, how many
cases are pending?

I’ve checked with Angela and these cases have not been raised through the SS review
so I’m proposing to go back with the response, below.

Susan — are you able to confirm the other two cases which have recently been dropped
and also that they are not cases raised through the SS review, and therefore not
currently part of the mediation process. The blog refers to Kym Wyllie and I believe
there is one other. I ask as these may come up over the weekend.

The line re the review was cleared with Alan a couple of weeks ago so am using this to
ensure we can get back to the media asap today.

Response:

The case/cases you mentioned is/are not part of the Second Sight review.

In line with the code for Crown Prosecutions we continually review cases for

prosecution and in this instance/these instances a decision has been made it is not in
the public interest to prosecute.
POL00145915

POL00145915

In terms of the SS review:

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do
so. The interim review published recently by independent investigators Second Sight
makes it clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function
effectively across our network. As the review notes, it is used by around 68,000 people
in more than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six million
transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for confidence in the overall
system."

“We have already taken steps towards the commitments made in response to the
interim report. We have worked with the JFSA to establish a working group to conduct
a review of outstanding cases and work is underway to develop a mediation process for
any of the 47 cases which have been raised as part of the Second Sight Review.

Ruth Barker
Post Office Press Office

Post Office, 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

F 24hrs) / Postline!
Mobile::
Email: ruth.x.barke:

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and
may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised
review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the
intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all
copies of the original message.
