POL00057796
POL00057796

Maiority House,

Private and Confidential
Messrs. Coomber Rich,

Date: 22 May 2012
Our Ref: MS2/22796

Dear Sirs,

Re: Post Office Ltd -v- Lynette Jane Hutchings
Portsmouth Magistrates Court - 6t June 2012 at 10.00 a.m.

We are instructed by the Post Office Ltd in connection with the prosecution of Lynette
Hutchings. In accordance with the Order of the Court of 10 April 2012 we enclose the
committal papers.

We are required to disclose to you any prosecution material which has not been
previously disclosed, and which might reasonably be considered capable of undermining
the case for the prosecution or assisting the accused’s case.

Attached to this letter is a copy of a schedule of non-sensitive unused material. Where the
word ‘evidence’ appears alongside any item, the items listed on the schedule are intended
to be used as part of the prosecution case. You will receive a written notice should the
position change. Where indicated, copies of the items listed are attached. Material marked
as available for inspection can be viewed by arrangement with the disclosure officer.

If you supply a written defence statement to our firm and to the court within 14 days, any
material which has not been disclosed at this stage will be further reviewed. A defence
statement is required in Crown Court cases.

In accordance with our continuing duty to consider disclosure, we will review the
information you provide in the statement to identify any remaining material which has
not already been disclosed. The statement will also be relied on by the court if you later
make an application under section 8 CPIA. If you do not make a CPIA-compliant defence
POL00057796
POL00057796

statement where one is required or provided, or do so late, the court may hear comment
and/or draw an adverse inference.

It is essential that you preserve this schedule in its present form, as access to any material
will only be granted upon its production to the disclosure officer.

Should any matters t hesitate to contact our Miss Rachael Panter at our
Nottingham office o:

Yours faithfully,

Cartwright King.
