POLO0097952
POL00097952

Message

From: WALKER, Janet,
on behalf of I WALKER, Janet
Sent: 1
To:
ce:
Subject: RE: MP meeting

Dear Alwen and Susan,

Thank you for your patience in this matter. Please find attached the notes from the meeting held at
Westminster on 25 March. This has now been sent to the MPs, along with the Chairman's letter and the
briefing note from Second Sight.

Neither James nor I were privy to any conversation that was held following the close of the meeting, so
cannot comment on those. James has, however, received a letter from Alan Bates at the JFSA which would
indicate that there may be some disagreement ahead. He is considering how to respond. Alan knows it's
Parliamentary Recess and so is not expecting an answer this week.

Perhaps you might digest what is in the document attached, and let me know your thoughts. I will get in
touch again once I have spoken to James to his return next week, and ask him for his thoughts on the ones
you express below.

Many thanks for your patience.

Janet

Janet walker

office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
mp for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

GRO

www. jamesarbuthnot.com

-----original Messac
From: Alwen Lyons I_ GRO
sent: 05 April 2013
To: WALKER, Janet

Cc: Susan Crichton
Subject: MP meeting

Hi Janet I am not chasing you, honestly as I know you would have sent the meeting note if it was
available.

But I am on holiday next week and just wanted to let you know, Susan will be available in my absence .
We have been discussing how we take this forward and how second sight should focus their work.

We really need to agree a way forward that James is comfortable with, as I fear JFSA and the MPs are in
very different places. investigating each MP case would be very expensive, hence second sight's
suggestion of investigating themes with their spot reviews, but it sounds as if, after the meeting we are
a_long way away from getting agreement to this. Especially with the conversations after the meeting
closed.

Once we have your note things might be clearer, but perhaps we should consider a call between James and
Paula to agree what is going to be done and how we keep everybody on Board without it costing a fortune.
Thanks

Alwen

Alwen Lyons
;Sompany... Secretary
0

POL-0097535
POLO0097952
POL00097952

eee

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then
delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of
the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

SE ee ee oe ar ee eo de a ae ea ras ae aoe dee aaa ae

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify
the sender_and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus
transmitted by this e-mail.

POL-0097535
