POL00091215
POL00091215

Doc 023 M084 Royal Mail Group

CONFIDENTIAL
Witness Statement

Criminal Justice Act 1967, Section 9: Magistrates Court Act 1980, sub section. 5A(3)(a) and 5B; Criminal Procedure Rules 2005, Rule 27:1
Statement of: Miss Kimberley Ann Langley

Age if under 18: Over 18 (if over 18 insert ‘over 18’)

This statement (consisting of pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and I
make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it
anything which I know to be false or do not believe true.

Dated the 20" day of — May 2011

Signature

I am the person named above and I live at the address overleaf. I am a Counter Clerk at Hightown Post Office®
Branch, Liversedge. I have worked at the branch for approximately four years. The Postmaster at the time was
Miss Alison Hall. I worked on the counter serving customers. At the time the branch used shared stocks. My
Horizon User 1D was KLA 001. At this time I had a password but the postmaster and other staff members knew

it. This was because we used other people's User Id if we needed to serve parcel customers.

During the first two weeks of August 2010 I ran the branch at Miss Hall was on leave. Before Miss Hall finished
she told me to add a figure in to the daily cash declaration. This was a figure that was written on the top of the
daily cash declarations. While Miss Hall was away on leave I did this. Then on Tursday I would have to telephone
the Post Office Ltd Cash Management team to request extra money ready for our Friday Delivery. This was
because the cash figures the branch were submitting on the cash declarations was inflated. Often we would run

short of money to serve customers.

Miss Hall told me she would sort the discrepancy on a number of occasions. During the two weeks I was running
the branch the daily lottery figures were fine and balanced. At the beginning of September 2010 a lady from
Post Office Ltd came to the branch to change the office over to the new Horizon system. Miss Hall had already
written down the cash and all that remained to count was in the drawer. The lady said she had to count all the

cash on hand. Miss Hall then said there was a problem. The branch then closed.

Miss Hall would usually leave the cash in the drawers overnight. Since the new postmaster has been running the

branch I have realised how poorly the branch was run by Miss Hall

I would be willing to attend Court if necessary.

Signature i Signature witnessed by

65011 (Side A) Version 8 Jan 10
