Confidential

Post Office Ltd

Document Information

Title Liability for Losses Policy (for agency branches)
Category Standard
Subject Treatment of branch trading losses at
independent agency branches
Version
Control
Author Jennifer Robson, Debt recovery section manager,
Product and Branch Accounting
Owner Marie Cockett ?? ( TBC)
Purpose To document liability for losses at independent
agency branches
Audience Service Teams, Independent Agents, NBSC,
Finance, Risk and control and Investigations
Privacy level Commercial Confidentiality
Document Post Office Sans 14
format
Document type I Electronic (MS Word. Doc),
Effective date I April 2006
Review date September 2006
Approval
Role Name(s) Date
Business input I V2 of the previous Policy, Geoff May, I August
Rod Ismay, Martin Ferlinc, Tony Utting, I 2005
Sandra Murray, Sean Farrow,
Circulation Business document change control
Assurance Victoria Noble,
Authorised Rod Ismay
Version control
Version No. Reason for issue Date
1 Draft Completely revised as a result of the Septem
implementation of Branch Trading and I ber05
business requirements to implement a
set of policies for various branch types.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe

Page 1

POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 2
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

LIABILITY FOR LOSSES POLICY

(FOR INDEPENDENT AGENCY BRANCHES)

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 3
POL00157899

POL00157899

Confidential

SECTION 1 - INTRODUCTION AND PURPOSE

Aside from the direct cost to Post Office Ltd of losses, that are ultimately
written-off, all losses involve associated administrative costs in dealing
with the errors that cause them and managing suspense accounts, with
many also leading to client penalty payments. (the subpostmasters
contract currently stipulates that Subpost,masters could be held liable for
client penalties, however this is not deployed at the date of issue but will
be reviewed as necessary)

Given the impact that losses have on Post Office Ltd costs and therefore
profits, this policy is defined to provide clear and consistent guidelines for
the treatment of accounting losses within the independent agency
network Which currently includes local multiples however it is
recommended that system changes are made to incorporate into national
multiples.

The overall purpose of the policy is to:

e — Ensure probity, objectivity and conformity across the network in a
commercial manner

e Clarify roles and responsibilities;

e Ensure equality and fairness of treatment of Subpostmasters and
other agents.

For the purpose of this policy, the term “agent” refers to all people or
companies operating as independent (i.e. including local multiples and
pluralist subpostmasters but not the multiple partners) sub-post office
branches under contract to Post Office Limited and the pronoun “he”
refers to people of either gender. The term “Contract and service
manager (C&SM) ” applies to the Post Office Ltd employee with direct
responsibility for the control of the relevant branch.

From a purely contractual perspective, the agent is responsible for all
losses caused through his own negligence, carelessness or error. He is
also responsible for losses caused by the actions of any assistants,
managers or relief personnel employed by him. This policy, consistent
with the contractual relationships between Post Office Ltd and its agents,
is designed to clarify circumstances where mitigation may be appropriate
and to provide a clear framework to handle individual cases.

SECTION 2 - PREVENTION OF LOSSES

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 4
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

The most effective way of reducing losses in Post Office ® branches is to
prevent them occurring in the first place. It is, therefore, essential that
there are good accounting practices in place and that business
procedures are complied with in branches, as poor accounting practices
may lead to carelessness and unnecessary losses.

It is the responsibility of the agent to ensure that the accounting and
operational procedures and practices employed in the branch conform to
the current business standard for branches of that type. It is the
responsibility to satisfy themselves that this is the case and to provide
advice, guidance and instructions where it is discovered that this is not
the case.

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 5
POL00157899

POL00157899

Confidential

SECTION 3 - AUTHORITY TO HOLD LOSSES

The Subpostmaster’s contract requires that losses are made good without
delay. Immediate settlement is therefore the expected contractual norm.

Under circumstances where the exact cause of the loss is known and a
compensating error is expected to be returned, losses may be held in the
agent’s central account and blocked whilst investigations are undertaken,
providing that the agent has completed their own investigation and is able
to show that a Transaction Correction (TC) errernetice is likely to be
issued for that loss or an element of the loss (i.e. the agent must be able
to detail a specific error that occurred for a specific client on a specific
date and be able to provide documentary evidence e.g. from the Horizon
transaction log).

. The Current Postmasters Debt Team will monitor amounts blocked in
the suspense account until the investigations is concluded. If a TC
cannot be confirmed at this stage, the amount will be unblocked on the
agent’s central account and will be reflected in the next request for
payment.

Only amounts above a threshold of £250 apply

(Drafters note. This threshold is currently £150)

The facility to block amounts on the agents central account, is supported
by the quality standards section of the contract and as such should be
considered to be the exception rather than the norm. Agents are
expected to address the underlying cause of misbalancing and must
expect that any subsequent errors of a similar nature will be referred to
the Service Team for corrective action.

Where the agent cannot demonstrate that a loss is due to an error within
a specific client's area of work but is unable to make good the loss
immediately, he should settle centrally on the Horizon system whereby
the normal debt recovery process will commence. If he claims that he is
unable to pay at least a minimum of 25%then the Income and expenditure
forms should be complete to assess his ability to pay but also to judge the
viability of the branch and any corrective action that might be needed.
Drafters note: This is an attempt to get away from the hardship

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 6
POL00157899

POL00157899

Confidential

For any total loss of over £5000 ?in a financial year by branch siaguiaror
fauttipfe, where the subpostmaster is repaying the amount by instalments
interest payments will be levied at a rate current at the time . POL needs
to determine whether debts are a risk to business funds and/or the
affordability viability of the agent and as such whether he should continue
in office

It should be noted that Subpostmaster with deductions from remuneration
should be sent credit TCs but with the facility only to “accept and settle
centrally’to offset the loss.

SECTION 4 - POLICY ON RELIEF

Occasionally, there may be exceptional circumstances where an agent
believes he is entitled to relief in making good a loss . The main
circumstances where consideration may be given are:

e Losses incurred by a new agent where personal attendance is
provided (one without previous post office experience), during the
first two Branch Trading statement periods, or part thereof.

e Distressing personal circumstances incurred at the branch that impacted the
sub postmaster’s ability to function on the day in question

New Agent

In the case of a new agent, the agent applies in writing to Product and
Branch Accounting ( contact TBA) , who will seek operational evidence
from the service team on whether relief is appropriate.

The Service team will take account of the agent’s overall performance
since appointment, the size and nature of the branch concerned
(including staffing arrangements before and after the transfer) and
whether or not the loss occurred whilst the trainer was present. He
should obtain the trainer's report of the competency of the new. Ina
recommendation for relief the Service Team must ensure that the agent
has reviewed how the loss occurred and amended their operating or

accounting practices to ensure that a similar loss cannot occur again.
Once a recommendation is received from the service team P&BA will review the
accounting record for the branch and make the decision and advise the
subpostmaster (and the service team) of the outcome.

Mitigating circumstances

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 7
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

If a subpostmaster considers that there are mitigating circumstances he must apply
in writing to the area performance manager who will assess whether relief from the
loss is justified (or whether a face to face meeting is required). The subpostmaster
must be prepared to give full details to support his request.

The area performance manager will forward the case and a recommendation
to the Debt Recovery Manager in Product and Branch accounting.

A representative of the Finance Director within PBA will make the final
decision on the case --dependent upon the amount involved.

A decision will be taken within 28 days. The decision taken and
communicated via the area performance manager will be final and no further
appeals will be allowed.

It must be emphasised that this process will operate by exception and is not a
means by which subpostmasters can abrogate their contractual
responsibilities.

There will be an ongoing review of cases and payments to ensure as far as
possible that claims are made in good faith and /or corrective action is taken if
we have made the wrong judgement on recurring cases.

SECTION 5 - WRITE-OFFS NETWORK RELATED-- DRAFTERS NOTE.
Principles around write offs (and ownership of budgets to be
addressed with PBA ( Vicky Nobel on sick leave at present) . This
para to be re written once agreed

Decisions in respect of write-offs are taken by P&BA with concurrence by
the Service Team and POSIS. The reasons for a write-off must be fully
documented and may be subject to audit. Contact with POSIS or C&SMs
for overall objective view of conformance of branch and or is needed

A write-off voucher {(detaiied-at Appendix A}, signed by an authorised
signatory, must be used in line with the folowing tevels_treferring te the-
amount written off. not the amount of the loss where that is different):
accounting for losses policy with post Office Limited®

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 8
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

SECTION 6 - HORIZON ISSUES

If an agent has evidence that an error has occurred via the Horizon
system, it is essential that this be reported to the Horizon System
Helpdesk (HSH) (script/process to be checked at NBSC Carola to check)
Carola could you add anything her? The HSH will only consider the
incident for further investigation if the evidence is sufficient to be
determined as a system fault. If no evidence is available, the case will not
be investigated and the agent will be held responsible for making good
the loss.

. All known system errors are managed through Network Support
Problem Management. Access to Problem Management is via the
NBSC. If the agent feels that the issue is not being resolved, they should
flag the issue up with NBSC. If a known system error has caused a
shortage, the agent should settle centrally the discrepancy andthis will be
blocked on the agents central account whilst investigations take place .

SECTION 7 - REMITTANCE DISPUTES

7.1. Cash centres

As a result of Bank of England rules, all cash centres in England are
automated. Centres located in Scotland and Northern Ireland; however,
do not currently face such a requirement. As a result the network of cash
centres is split into automated and non-automated cash centres.

The very significant investment made by Post Office Ltd in processing
and image capture and recording equipment in automated cash centres
means that the accuracy of notes supplied and processed at these sites is
of an extremely high standard. All processing must take place in
accordance with the following criteria:

e all notes dispatched to Post Office Branches have been integrity

checked (i.e. no forgeries, counterfeits, foreign notes or notes of non-
circulation quality);

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 dra. doc Page 9
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

e the high speed notes sorting equipment is calibrated daily (i.e. a
known quantity is counted and verified) and records maintained;

e the operation of the high-speed note sorting equipment is under
cover of high resolution CCTV;

e adequate processes are in place to ensure the integrity of notes held
in storage;

e — the outward remittance process is structured in such a way that the
following can be witnessed on the CCTV system;

- the appropriate numbers of bricks are laid out on the
processing bench in a way that allows remote verification;

- the placement of bricks into the security container can be
witnessed;

- the sealing of the security pouch can be witnessed;

e — the inward remittance process is structured in such a way to allow the
discovery of a discrepancy to be witnessed on the CCTV;

- the opening of the pouches and the contents should be visible
under camera;

- the inward remittance processor must remain within camera
coverage at all times until a supervisor has verified the
discrepancy;

e records are maintained of any CCTV system down time.

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 10
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

The notes processing procedures at non-automated sites are still
considered to be fully acceptable, however the level of verification
available at those sites is less than that achieved at automated sites.

As a result of this there are two separate approaches to assessing liability
for losses caused by reported discrepancies in remittances between
branches and cash centres and vice versa, depending on the status of the
cash centre.

Automated Cash Centres (England) will operate the following
principles:

Subject to the detailed provisions above and below it is not anticipated
that undetected discrepancies will occur in remittances from automated
cash centres to Post Office ® branches. As a result therefore claims will
not normally be expected from branches for alleged shortages in note
remittances supplied by automated cash centres. Any such reported
discrepancies will be subject to internal check using automated systems
and CCTV images and will be rejected if the internal checks give no
cause for doubt over the preparation and make up of the remittance in
question.

Due to the effectiveness of the automated image capture surveillance of
the inward remittance opening process at automated cash centres, it is
anticipated that clear evidence will exist to support any discovered
discrepancies in note remittances from Post Office ® branches to
automated cash centres. As a result, therefore, all discrepancies will
normally be the liability of the sending branch i.e. if a cash centre
discovers a shortage within an inward remittance the discrepancy will be
borne by the despatching branch.

Note: In the event of the CCTV system being out of commission or the
integrity of the note sorting equipment being in doubt, the rules governing
the discrepancy process revert to the non-automated cash centre rules for
the given period i.e. the receiver is deemed to be correct. Cash centre
processors must adhere to processes laid down when undertaking these
duties; any evidence to the contrary will result in a presumption in favour
of the branch.

Digital CCTV cameras cover all inward and outward note processing in

automated cash centres so evidence of notes despatched and notes
received can be scrutinised in the event of claims. In the event of

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 11
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

disputes, agents will have the right to view the CCTV footage
accompanied by a suitable person, such as their NFSP representative or
area intervention/ performance manager.

Non-Automated Cash Centres (Scotland and N Ireland) will operate
the following principles:

For discrepancies in note remittances from non-automated cash centres
to Post Office ® branches, all discrepancies will normally be the liability of
the sending unit, i.e. if a Post Office ® branch discovers a shortage within
a “non-automated” remittance the discrepancy will be borne by the cash
centre, unless otherwise proved.

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 12
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

For discrepancies in note remittances from Post Office ® branches to non-
automated cash centres, all discrepancies will normally be the liability of
the sending branch i.e. if a non-automated cash centre discovers a
shortage within an inward remittance the discrepancy will be borne by the
despatching branch, unless otherwise proved.

Discrepancy reporting and appeals

For both automated and non-automated cash centres, Post Office ®
branches must report discrepancies to the supplying cash centre within
the following timescales:

Full block - 24 hours

Individual notes - within 5 days

Cash centres will report discrepancies to branches within 24 hours of the
time of processing the remittance.

For full blocks the timescale from receipt to report back to branch will in
the majority of cases be within 5 days.

The following information is required to support discrepancy claims from
agents:

Missing Brick of notes

Branch (FAD)

Dates

Pouch Number & Physical pouch retained which has been correctly
opened

Evidence of pouch integrity (e.g. no tears)

Value of shortage

Name of person opening pouch and second check officer (if practical)

Missing Individual Note

Branch (FAD)

Dates

Pouch Number

Band around notes to be retained
Value

If there are no known errors or problems with equipment at the cash

centre the agent will be asked to make good the deficit. If, having seen
CCTV footage and automated accounting system records at the cash

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 13
POL00157899

POL00157899

Confidential

centre, the agent is still dissatisfied with the decision and wishes to
appeal, he will be asked to put his appeal in writing within 7 working days.

Appeals will be heard by a national panel, which will be chaired by a
senior manager from the Product and Branch Accounting (DRAFTERS
NOTE—not yet agreed in PBA) team and will include an NFSP
representative, A Representative from the Service Team and a senior
manager from cash centre line management.

On receipt of a written appeal at the cash centre, a questionnaire will be
sent to the agent to complete. The agent must complete and return the
questionnaire within 7 days of the receipt of the appeals form. The cash
centre will inform the appeals panel of claims to be reviewed and will
ensure that camera evidence is safeguarded until the panel are next due
to meet.

The appeals panel will meet as required dependant on levels of appeals
and will review all evidence for relevant claims. In particular the appeals
panel will:

e Consult P&BA to access the error notice history and outstanding error
information relevant to this case, which should agree with the cash
centre view;

e review relevant camera footage to ensure that necessary criteria are
fully met;

e consider any other relevant information;

¢ communicate the decision to the agent, C&SM and cash centre
manager, with a detailed rationale to support the decision;

e record details of claims rejected/accepted and any follow up action
required i.e. cash centre to review procedures where criteria were not
fully met.

e Advise PBA team of the decision and agree action required to correct
the accounts

e

The processes for dealing with cash remittance disputes are illustrated in

Appendices C-G.

Note: Coin discrepancies will be dealt with as for non-automated sites, as

camera footage will not be available for this element of the remittance and

the likelihood of large discrepancies in this area is minimal.

7.2. Bureau de change

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 14
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

Outwards ( to the branch) Discrepancies

In principle the receiver is considered to be correct.

However as CCTV is now installed reported discrepancies can be
assessed against the appropriate video footage. If a review of the video
indicates that the postmaster’s challenge cannot be upheld there is an
opportunity for him to withdraw the discrepancy report. If the
subpostmaster refuses to accept it is likely that this will be reported to
security /investigations.

(drafter note: This review of the policy allows us to approach the
NFSP with a proposal to adopt the cash centre process. Suggest
that Hilary with support from Sandra work up the process which can
be included in this document.

This "automated centre" status would only apply to planned orders which
are full blocks of Euro and USD because it is much more difficult to prove
the case when small quantities of many different currencies are being
picked.

Inwards Discrepancies
(Drafter’s note —as above)

Forged notes

Obligation is on the PMR to identify forged notes. If they are uncertain, they can send the notes to us
for authentication prior to paying the customer

SECTION 8 - STOCK LOSSES

Agents are responsible for ensuring that all stock based transactions are
carried out accurately, including the return of the stock. If any instructions
provided (including those provided in Operational Focus articles) are
incorrectly followed, Post Office Ltd will have the right to require the agent
to make good resultant losses from any failure to comply.

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 15
POL00157899

POL00157899

Confidential

Post Office Ltd is only legally permitted to recover the loss which it
actually suffers itself at the hands of its clients (e.g. if an agent fails to
return stock with a face value of £5 but Post Office Ltd, under its contract
with the issuer of the stock, is only required to pay the reprint cost of that
stock and not the face value, then Post Office Ltd is only legally entitled to
recover reprint costs from the agent). Each case turns on the wording of
the contract between Post Office Ltd and the client and the particular
circumstances of the case. The product manager should be contacted for
the value of the stock ? or Damian Taylor ?

Robberies why don’t we recover the stock ? and are we going to deploy
this?

SECTION 9 - DEBT RECOVERY

Post Office Limited operates in an increasingly commercial and
competitive environment and constantly seeks to minimise losses and
risk to business assets.

The business debt recovery process is documented and available to all
subpostmasters. (Drafter note: I am awaiting info from
Communications to say how this will be communicated across the
network.).

SECTION 10 - LOSSES REVEALED AT AUDIT

Inspectors, working for the Security team within Post Office Ltd, visit Post
Office ® branches as part of a programme of audits.

The agent is advised of any loss revealed at the audit and, once they
have agreed the loss, is required without prejudice to make it good
immediately as would happen for any other cash account loss. This also
applies at the final balance at a transfer audit before cash and stock is
transferred to an incoming agent. POL will determine what corrective
action will be undertaken for any unspecified loss

If the agent is unable to make the loss good at the time of the audit, the
corrective action process will be invoked.

Section 11
Forged Notes . Eddie Jarman is leading a review of liability for forged
notes and we should include any relevant policies here (Drafters note

-current plans are to commence the review in October 05 so we
should have something for early new year. )

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 16
POL00157899
POL00157899

Confidential

SECTION 12 - NON-DEPLOYMENT OF THE POLICY

If it becomes evident that an agent has not applied this policy, e.g. holding losses
without authority or beyond the authorised period, the retail line will apply the agreed
corrective action process.

Failure by Post Office ® branches to adhere to the timescales within the
policy will invalidate discrepancy & appeal claims.

Liability for Losses Policy for Ageney Branches v2.1 drat doe Page 17
APPENDIX A __ Drafters note ( think this does not need to be
here?)

RETAIL LINE WRITE OFF AUTHORITY VOUCHER

BRANCH FAD CODE ...
COST CENTRE CODE ........ccccccceseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeens
AMOUNT £

AMOUNT IN WORDS

LOSS DESCRIPTION (record narrative details below)

Prepared by Retail Line Manager/Contracts Manager
(supporting papers available for review by concurring personnel)

Name (in block capitals) os...

Signature ..... 0.0... ccc ee ccc ee cece eeecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

Operational Concurrence

Name (in block capitals)
Position

Signature of Authorisation
Date

Position

Financial Concurrence

Name (in block capitals)

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 drat. doe Page 18

POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899

Position
Signature of Authorisation
Date

Position

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 drat. doe Page 19
APPENDIX B

FINANCIAL HARDSHIP CASE

Please provide the following details for annual income and

expenditure.

BUSINESS DETAILS
Income

Retail Sales

Less Cost of Sales
PO Remuneration

Int Allowances

Other (please specify)

TOTAL (1)
Overheads

Wages

Gas

Electric

Telephone
Printing/Stationery
Accountancy Fees
Insurance

Motor Expenses
Uniform Business Rate
Water Rates

Rent

Repairs

Bank Interest/Charges
Loan Repayments
Taxation

Other (please specify)

TOTAL (2)

NET PROFIT (3)
(1) -(2)=3

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe

PERSONAL DETAILS
Income

PO Drawings

Interest on Savings

Spouses Salary
Other (please specify)

TOTAL
Overheads

Mortgage/Rent
Council Tax
Electric
Gas
Water Rates
Telephone
Motoring Expenses
Housekeeping
Clothing
Other (please specify)

TOTAL

Please provide details of
funds available from your
own resources.

Bank/Building Society
Stocks/Share

Page 20

POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899

PEPs/TESSAs/ISAs
Premium Bonds
What do you take out of the Business as personal income (drawings)
NB: PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU WILL BE REQUIRED TO
PROVIDE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION TO SUBSTANTIATE
THE ABOVE INFORMATION. (e.g. LATEST SET OF ACCOUNTS).

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 drat. doe Page 21
Non-Automated Cash Centre
- Outward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Remittance
Despatched

If reported outside
timescales, agent to be
liable,

Agent to Provide:

Branch name and FAD code
Pouch No.

Retain pouch for future
examination

Value & nature of shortage

Notes:

Recelved in Branch &
Agent reports a
discrepancy

Enter Details into
Outward Discrepancy
‘Spreadsheet

x

_Aidividual Note
Shortage

¥

Report to Cash Centre
= with relevant details -
‘Within 5 days.

¥

Cash Centre holds
investigation

¥

Cash Centre rectify
discrepancy with
Branch via POL-FS

a

Every week send the
Outward Discrepancy
‘Spreadsheet to P&BA

‘Block of notes~

I —__»

Report to C

shortage

ash Centre:

with relevant details -

within 2.

4 hours

September 2005

It reported outside
timescales, agent to be
liable.

Agent to Provide:

Branch name and FAD code
I ___Pouch No,

Retain pouch for future

examination

Value & nature of shortage

= Whatever the outcome, Agent should alvays book value as per paperwork
i

= Agent should NOT accept any pouch if integrity of the seal/poucl

is broken

= Pouch needs to be opened as directed, e.g. scissors along line indicated

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe

Page 22

POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899

Appen
September 2005
Non-Automated Cash Centre
- Inward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Received in cash
centre and
> discrepancy found and
verified by second

Agent makes up
Outward Rem

officer
a
Cash Centre must report
Cash Centre reports I discrepanoy within 24 hours of
discrepancy to branch ‘opening the remittance

PBNES:

Agree liability with

branch

branch lable Centre Liable

Comet via POL-FS ite ot ocally
> END il

Liabilty for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 drat. doe Page 23
Appendix E

Automated Cash Centre

- Outward Remittance Discrepancy Process

Agent accepts
advices?

Every week send the

‘Outward Discrepancy

Rem Received in
Branch & Agent
reports or claims a
discrepancy

¥
Enter Details into

‘Spreadsheet to P&BA

‘Outward Diserepancy
Spreadsheet

Reports to Cash
Centre - with relevant
details - Within 5 days

¥

Cash Centre review

‘September 2005

Block of note
shortage

Reports to Cash
Centre - with
relevant details -
within 24 hours

‘evidence to hand

_E teria fully

met?
Yes NO
loose notes) ag
(Full PBNE) No.

‘Letter One" is

‘sent to the branch

‘Letter Two" is
‘sent to the branch

Letter Three" is
ssentto branch

No:

‘Agent accep
advice?

yy
Process Ends
\ )

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe

Discrepancy
dealt with as per
the non-
‘automated claim
process, refer to
‘Appendix C.

Cash Centre sets
aside evidence
pending likely
appeal

Appeals:
process

Invoked - See
Appendix G

Page 24

POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899
POL00157899

Appendix F

September 2005
Automated Cash Centre
- Inward Remittance Discrepancy Process
makes up: -————> discrepancy found
Outward Rem and verified by
‘second officer
Discrepancy dealt
with as per the
equipment non-automated
ting claim process,
ect Appendix D
*
reports details of I__I branch of dsorepancy within 24
dlecrepency to. outs of opening the
branch Temittance/PBNEs
Agree Labtty with
the branch
_ Appeals process:
Postmaster y Invoked -See
agrees? ° ‘Separate
ames? Flowchart
Option A
Branch Liable ‘Option B
Cortent a POLES Cente Liable
Wt of locally
ewe
Page 25

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe
Appendix G

Appeals Process for Automated C

Cash Centre send
Appeal Form to
branch

Agent contacts cash centre

to invoke appeals process

, Completed
‘Appeal Form returned to

Cash Centre within 7 days
ofr 7

pt

Yes
a

Branch advised to hold in
suspense pending Review

Centre record and monitor all
cases reported and contact
appeals panel to inform them of
cases to be reviewed

¥

Appeals panel inform Cash
Centre that evidence is required
that criteria was fully meet.

Appeals panel meet and review
Supporting documentation & any
CCTV footage before
adjudicating

Intervention manager, Branch
Manager and Cash Centre
manager of decision. Details of
appeal recorded and case

str Centre-coMtacts branctrte
confirm that shortage is
removed from suspense

account and made good, or that
a Transaction Correction will be

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe

POL00157899
POL00157899

April 04
ash Centres

‘Cash Centre contact branch
and request the shortage is,
‘made good

>No}

end)

Note.

Cash centre will log all
claims on excel spreadsheet
and forwards appropriate
information to National
investigations team for
further investigation.

Page 26
POL00157899
POL00157899

5 April 04
Appeals Process for Automated Cash Centres
Cash Centre send
Agent contacts cash centre Appeal Form to:
to invoke appeals process branch
following decision by cath
7 7
\ J
/
Y
Completed ‘Cash Centre contact branch
No», iho and request the
shortage & made good
Yes
oe
{ END )
Branch achised to holdin -
suspense pencing Review
Note
‘Cash centre will log all
claims on excel sproacshoct
Centre record and monitor all and forwards appropriate
cases reported and contact — information to Security for
appeais panel to inform them of furtner investigation,
y
Appeats panel inform Cash
Centre that evidence fs required
that crteia wes fll meet
‘Appeals panel mest and review
stipporting documentation & any
CCTV footage before
adjudicating
‘Appeals panel inform Contracts
Mr, Branch Manager and
NBSC of decison Details of
‘appeal recorded an case
closed
Note
Cash centre logs claim on
Y excel spreadsheet and
NBSC contacts branch to I plone 0 us and
confirm that shortage is Inepeotions on monthly basis
removed from suspense
account and made good.
END
Page 27

Liability for Losses Policy for Agency Branches v2.1 draftdoe
