Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and
VHS Tape CCTV Images for Evidential
Purposes

Version 1.0 Final
February 2011

Review Date: February 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

Mobex
Mobile

POL00104866
POL00104866
POL00104866
POL00104866

Contents

Key Accountabilities

1. Introduction

2. General

3. Producing Digital Video Recording (DVR) Images
4. Producing VHS Tape Images

Change Control

Glossary

OYHX ea eRwW

ng Digital and VHS Tape CCTV Images for Evidential Purposes (6.1.2)- RM V1.0 ~ Page 2 of @

POL00104866

POL00104866
Key Accountabilities
Who is © What do I have to I When do I have I How do I do ©
accountable? I do? _ __ I te do this? _ this?
All members Ensure you comply I Ongoing As detailed
of Royal Mail I with these within these
Security procedures procedures

© Royal Mail 2021 Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tape CCTV Images for Evidential Purposes (6.1.2)- RM V1.0 - Page 3 of
POL00104866
POL00104866

Securing Digital and VHS CCTV Images for Evidential Purposes

1. Introduction

1.1 Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) images often provide compelling

evidence of theft. These procedures describe how to effectively
preserve the integrity of the images and present the evidence in
Court.

1.2 Within Royal Mail we use both Digital Video Recorders (DVR) and

Video Home System (VHS) Tape Recorders. Section 3 deals with the
procedures in respect of DVR images and Section 4 deals with VHS
video tape.

2. General

2.1 Integrity of CCTV Images. When using CCTV systems Investigators

should ensure that the time and date data on the system is correct.
They should also ensure that they make notes detailing their actions
in respect of recording CCTV images.

Copying and Editing Recording Media. The Prosecution Support Office
(PSO) has the ability to copy; 1) DVD to DVD, 2) DVD to VHS tape, 3)
VHS tape to DVD or 4) VHS tape to VHS tape. They also have the
ability to produce edited highlights as directed by the Investigator
or the Criminal Law Team (CLT). Requests for copying or editing
media should be submitted to the PSO with a completed GS307 Copying
and Editing Request form detailing the exact requirements.

3. Producing Digital Video Recorded (DVR) Images

3.1

© Royal Mail 2021 Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tape CCTV Inages

We have a variety of DVR systems within the Royal Mail (RM) estate.
Unfortunately not all the systems record digital data using the same
software “file format”. Some of the software formats are specific
to the particular manufacturers of the DVR equipment and as such
they are not “recognised” when playback is attempted on an
Investigator’s RM Personal Computer (PC). The generic name for
these “original” file formats is the “Native File Format”.

The majority of Business DVR systems record on a 14 day cycle,
recording 24hrs a day. The images recorded are downloaded on to a
hard drive within the CCTV system. After 14 days it over records
the first day and so on and so forth. It is possible to save data to
the hard drive for an indefinite period, however the hard drive
capacity is 14 days, so if any data is saved to the hard drive then
the recording cycle will be reduced by the corresponding period of
time.

Master Copies. The initial course of action is for Investigators to
create master copies of the images that they intend to rely on as
evidence of the offence(s) and also all the images recorded which
are relevant material and as such should be disclosed as unused
material. Master copies should be produced in the native file format
as this ensures evidential integrity and picture quality. It also
represents the “Best Evidence” available. Some systems may give the
option to download the images in a format that is playable on
“windows” configured computer, however this often requires the video
to be recompressed, resulting in a loss of quality. In addition,
when transferring from the native file format the “Metadata”, which
includes the date and time, may also be lost.

for Bvidential Purposes (6.1.2)- RM Vi

POL00104866
POL00104866

3.4 Unused Material. It is only necessary to create master copies of
images reviewed by an Investigator which may be relevant. That is to
say any images which appear to an Investigator to have some bearing
on any offence under investigation or any person being investigated
or on the surrounding circumstances, unless it is incapable of
having any impact on the case. The following are some examples of
relevant material;

3.4.1 Images of the suspect handling “Test” items.

3.4.2 Any images of the suspect handling mail at times when
specific losses have been reported.

3.4.3. Any reviewed images where the suspect is seen to act
suspiciously.

3.4.4 Any reviewed images which demonstrate that the suspect
omitted to do anything which is relevant (for example, images
showing that a suspect did not visit the broken packet duty).

3.5 Obtaining the Images - Checklist. Investigators should obtain master
and working copies of DVDs using the checklist below;

3.5.1 Contemporaneous Notes. Must be made detailing any action
taken to recover evidential material.

3.5.2 Time Check. The time displayed by the DVR system should be
checked against that given by the speaking clock. Any error
between the system time and real time should be recorded and
compensated for when conducting the retrieval. This will ensure
that the correct section of data is copied.

3.5.3. Note the Make and Model. Record the details of the DVR
system, and if possible establish the type of native file
format used.

3.5.4 Determine Which Camera Views Are Required. It is good
practice to draw a plan of the camera views to establish which
views need to be recorded. Some systems permit video from
individual cameras to be downloaded, but some do not, in which
case data from all cameras will need to be taken.

3.5.5 Replay Data and Produce Master Copies. Check that the
relevant images exist on the system. If they do, produce a
master copy in the native file format.

3.5.6 Confirm Success of Retrieval. Confirm that the data has been
copied. If possible replay the images on a PC. If unable to
replay the data on a PC attempt to replay the data using the
master copy disc on the DVR system. (If unable to confirm
retrieval ensure that all the relevant images are stored on to
the DVR system hard drive until confirmation can be made).
Master Copies of evidence which the investigator intends to
rely on should be sealed using a Master Tape Seal GS022. There
is no requirement to seal unused material.

3.5.7 Produce Working copies. Working copies of evidential DVDs
should then be made. Depending on which particular DVR system
has been used to record the images will depend on which
procedure is to be followed.

a) Native File Format Playable on RM PC. Produce working copies
locally.

b) System has Conversion Software. Some systems have internal
software which will convert the native file format to a file
playable on a RM PC (Windows compatible software, for
example Windows Media Player). If the quality acceptable
and “Metadata” is present again produce working copies
locally. If the quality is unacceptable then follow option
c) or d) below.

© Royal Mail 2021 Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tape CCTV Images for Evidential Purposes (6.1.2)~ RM V!

POL00104866
POL00104866

c) Software Available for Download from the DVR system. Some
systems will allow software programmed in the DVR to be
downloaded on to a disc for uploading onto a PC. This
software will enable the PC to read the native file format.
However as Investigators are not given administrator rights
on their RM PC then they will be unable to upload the
conversion software. If this is the case the working copies
of the relevant material in native file format along with a
copy of the conversion software should be sent to the PSO
for copying. The PSO have “stand alone” computers which can
upload the conversion software and produce appropriate
playable working copies for the Investigator. (Submissions
to the PSO need to be accompanied by a completed GS307
detailing exactly what is required).

d) Unplayable Native File Format with no Conversion Software.
In such cases the working copies of the DVDs should be
forwarded to the PSO. The Investigator must supply them with
the make, model and native file format name for the relevant
DVR system. The PSO will make arrangements to obtain the
relevant conversion software and return playable copies to
the Investigator.

3.6 Investigators must ensure that the CLT receive DVD copies of all the
evidence, in a format which can be played on a RM PC, of the same
quality as the master copy. There is no requirement to supply the
CLT with a copy of the unused material, unless it is specially
requested but a description of the footage should be detailed on the
Schedules of Unused Material if relevant.

3.7 The sealed master copies of the evidence which support the charges
(not the unused material) should be produced in the Investigator’s
statement. Working copies should be available at Court to be played
as required on a standard PC.

4. Producing VHS Tape Images

4.1 Again the priority is to decide what VHS tape images will be used as
evidence to support the prosecution and what images need to be
retained as unused material. As far as unused material is concerned
again it is relevant material as described in paragraph 3.4 above.
However, as there is not the same resource implication of
downloading digital images and producing copies, a practical
approach would be to keep all video tapes which feature the suspect
during the course of their duties and other images which are
relevant, such as footage which demonstrate that a suspect omitted
to carry out an action that they should have.

4.2 The original recorded tape becomes the master copy. The “lugs” in
the cassette box should be removed to prevent accidental over-
recording. Again, working copies of evidential master tapes have to
be supplied to the CLT of a quality that is consistent with the
master copies. Copies of the unused material need only be supplied
to the CLT if they specifically request it but it is expected that a
description of the footage will be listed on the Schedules of Unused
Material if they are required.

Evidential Purposes (6.1.2)- AMV:

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tape CCTY Images for
POL00104866
POL00104866

Change Control

Draft

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
February 2011
Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt February
2011

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via vi Feb 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

vV.l
Draft
Feb 2011
Feb

Document Change History

vi Document Produced

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 2 ta 6.1 Securing Digital and

V Images for Evidential Purposes (6.1.2)- RM V1.0 - Page 7 of 8
Glossary

POL00104866
POL00104866

cctv Closed Circuit Television
DVR Digital Video Recorder
VHS Video Home System

PSO Prosecution Support Office
cLT Criminal Law Team

Document Summary
If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston Street
LONDON

sW11 9LT

Postline:
STD:
Email mick.f.matthews@

Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 2 to 6.1 Securing Digital and VHS Tay

or Evidential Purposes

(6.1.2)- RM

= page @ of 8
