POLO0105002
POL00105002

Message

From:
on behalf of
Sent:
To: Andy Hayward
cc: Andrew Dale

Helen Dickinson!

Subject: A ‘elopment - Nine box model.
Attachments: Nine Box Model 130613 (2).xls; Copy of Security Team Skills Matrix (V2003A).xIs; Training and Development record
and request Instructions April 2013.doc

All,

As part of our 121 process, could you complete the Ninebox model save it and send it to me I will then forward it on to
Tony Newman. Additionally the skills matrix needs to be completed. I am assuming we can do this remotely!!! If not we
can complete on next face to face. Andrew need to fix up a date for yours

Cheers

Rob

Rob King I Senior Security Manager Operations

From: Andrew J Scott
Sent: 14 June 2013 14:03

To: Andy Hayward; Colette A Mcateer; Darrell Kennedy; Dave Pardoe; Elaine Spencer; Jayne Bradbury; John Bigley;
Kevin Ryan; Rob King; Sally Smith; Tony Newman; Kim Abbotts; Sue Hanson; Joanne Hancock; Dave Z Wood; Nicole
Dummett; Toni Sless; Katie Barber

Cc: Andy Baker1; Christopher G Knight; Ashlie Colman; Jacqueline Morris

Subject: People Plan Training and Development - Nine box model.

All,
As an ongoing part of the Training and Development strand of the People Plan please find attached a nine box model that
should be completed in conjunction with your direct reports at their next 121. As with the Skills Matrix this is intended to
identify any training requirements and skill enhancements your team may need as part of their future development.
The nine box model will be collated centrally and all responses will be treated in strictest confidence.
Instructions for completion:-

e Open the attachment and enable macros

e Direct reports should select their name from the drop down list
e They should then select one of the nine boxes which best describes how they view themselves.

POL-0080634
POLO0105002
POL00105002

e The model will then ask them to confirm their selection before bringing up their line managers name.
* The model will then bring up a similar confirmation box for their line manager to make their selection.

e If both parties agree on the selections the line manager clicks ‘Yes’ and this will email the result to a central point.
If the line manager clicks ‘No’ it returns to the start page for input again.

In Issue 27 of the Security Newsletter we indicated that a line manager surgery session would be held for those who
haven't completed one of these before but it is felt more appropriate if you contact either Tony Newman on

jor myself on the numbers below if you require any help or assistance regarding the completion of

the model:

Regards

Andrew J Scott I Security Programme Manager

andrew.j.scott

POL-0080634
