POL00124944
POL00124944

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd{[i_.
Sent: Tue 15/05/2012 2:58:17 PM (UTC)

To: Tracey J Cutts[f__

Subject: Fw: South Warnborough PO
Attachment: Appendix C.pdf
Attachment: Appendix A.pdf
Attachment: Appendix B.pdf

From: Chris Darvill

Sent: Tuesday, May 15, 2012 11:31 AM
To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Subject: RE: South Warnborough PO

Angela

Please find attached appendices A to C as requested. This is everything contained on the security file.
Regards

Chris Darvill

Legal Services

Post Office Ltd
148.Qld Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Sent: 14 May 2012 20:57

To: Chris Darvill

Subject: RE: South Warnborough PO

Chris,

Could I have the appendices referred to in the investigation report as a matter of urgency please.
Thanks,

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
Siemens

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
POL00124944
POL00124944

From: Chris Darvill

Sent: 14 May 2012 13:30

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
Subject: South Warnborough PO

Angela
Thank you for your time earlier.

Please find attached PDF copies of the relevant additional documentation contained on the Security file. As discussed,
I have been unsuccessful in locating the prosecution files which would have been prepared for the purposes of the
criminal proceedings. The documents attached are:-

+ The investigation report prepared by the security team;

* The audit report prepared post-audit; and

* The pre-prepared written statement offered by Jo Hamilton prior to her interview under caution. This
document is the only document which I have seen which purports to record her version of events. As you know,
she was subsequently interviewed under caution but offered “no comment” in response to each and every
question.

There are a couple of points raised in her statement which merit further comment:-

* First, her position on the training offered to her seems confused. She states that she was “persuaded” to take
over the branch under the direction of a subpostmaster in October 2001. She states that she was offered two
weeks of half training days at that point. My understanding was that training was only offered to the
subpostmaster and it was responsibility of the subpostmaster to train his or her staff, but this may not be correct.
It is, therefore, not clear what training (if any) she would have received in or around 2001. In any event, she
states that she did not attend the training offered.

* She refers to the fact that on “one occasion” there was an unexplained error for £1,500 which is alleged to
have doubled. She was asked about this error during her interview and said “no comment” in response to when
this error was alleged to have occurred and in response to whether or not it was being suggested that this error
impacted upon the cash storage identified at audit.

* She refers to the switch to branch training and alleges it was never properly explained to her. Martin Drake
has confirmed that the branch was migrated in October 2005. Although no actual visit would have been made to
the branch, she would have been provided with an interactive training CD-ROM, a copy of the transition guide, a
copy of the quick reference guide, a branch trading calendar and the relevant manuals. She would also have
been invited to attend one of the face-to-face events. It was also open to her to request a video copy of the
interactive training CD-ROM if she wanted one, but there is no record of her having done so.

* It appears that she did not take the branch trading “grass roots” test. I am not entirely clear whether this is
relevant or not. My understanding is that it is voluntary in any event.

I hope the above is helpful. Please let me know if you require anything else.

Kind regards

Chris Darvill

Legal Services
POL00124944
POL00124944

Post Office Ltd

;-448.0ld.Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

