POL00059402
POL00059402

Message

To: Andy CashI

Subject: FW: POL cases raising Horizon
Hello both

Please see below. I half expected to receive such a response. I can clarify with Gareth that it doesn't matter that specific
cases are not quoted in his report as not one of them has raised a specific issue with the Horizon system itself, they have
all been generic to date.

I will confirm with him that I intend to use the same report, but I have had to run it past him first as a matter of course as
he may be called to give evidence, and that I will still need an original signed and dated copy.

I will investigate the issue of costs with central funds to find out what costs can be recovered. I only emailed him directly
because I know that it takes days for the POL investigators to have a response and I can't wait for days to go by.

Do you think my intended response is appropriate? Should I run this via Jarnail so that he is aware of the position?
Please advise
Many thanks

Rachael

From: Jenkins Gareth GI [i
Sent: 16 November 2012 11:42

To: Rachael Panter

Cc: Jane M Owen; Thomas Penny; Davidson James
Subject: RE: POL cases raising Horizon

Rachel,

Can’t you use the report I have already sent you? There is no mention of th

se on the report.

You should really be addressing such requests through Post Office Ltd rather than directly to myself.

As far as I know there is no commercial cover in place for me to spend any time on such activities (and that includes the
Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

POL-0055881
POL00059402
POL00059402

we Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

From: Rachael Panter [mailto jgsiaasaiaaaaaeeletates
Sent: 16 November 2012 11:30

To: Jenkins Gareth GI
Subject: POL cases raising Horizon

Dear Gareth

Re: Horizon expert report

As you may already be aware, your expert report detailing the reliability of the Horizon system has
been served as evidence in a number of Post Office cases that are at various stages of the court
process, most of which are listed for trial in the early part of next year.

It should be noted that to date, most, if not all cases raising the Horizon system as an issue, have been
unable/not willing to particularise what specific issues that they may have with the system, and how
that shapes the nature of their defence.

As we already have your detailed report, I would like to serve it in each case listed below. All of the
following cases have raised issues with the reliability of the Horizon system:

ee
m Ishaq 25th Feb 2013 trial at Bradford Crown Court

Your expert report has already been served in thi case. I would like to serve your
report in the remaining cases and have attached a case summary of each case listed above so that you
may familiarise yourself with the facts of each case.

I would like to stress that I do not anticipate that all of the above cases will reach trial stage. Please
could you read the case summaries attached, and send 5 original signed and dated copies of your
report to me as soon as possible.

Tam conscious that there are a couple of cases coming up in December. In order for me to serve your
report in time, please could you either send the copies of your reports via special delivery and/or as
an email attachment.

If you have any queries please do not hesitate to contact me

Kind regards

Rachael

POL-0055881
POL00059402
POL00059402

Rachael Panter

CartwrightKing

rs cee)
Nottingham I Birmingham { Derby I Leicester I Sheffield I Newcastle Gateshead

Norwich Union House, South Parade, Old Market Square, Nottingham, NG1 2LH

. . a ;
www. cartwrightking.co.uk  @CartwrightKing

‘This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received this in error please delete this message and let us know by email
or telephone. A list of directors is available at each office. Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No:

737837295.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu"

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-

free

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0055881
