POL00448730
POL00448730

Group Company Secretary

Page 1ot 4
POL00448730
POL00448730

About Post Office

The Post Office has thrived at the heart of high streets and local communities across the UK for
over 370 years. As one of the country’s most trusted brands, we take our commitment to
providing essential services to customers across the UK very seriously.

The Post Office is the largest retail network in Europe with over 25,000 outlets: 11,500 Post
Offices and 13,500 Payzone branches. It is the largest financial services chain in the UK with
more branches than all of the UK’s banks and building societies put together and with a network
of 2,700 ATMs.

We know that the best way to provide a great service for customers is to evolve our business and
adapt to their changing needs. That’s why we have a range of over 170 products and services, from
personal financial services like banking, insurance, payments and travel money, to telecoms, to
identity and, of course, mails. And we’re improving our online and in store experience for customers.
We know that our customers never stop changing, so neither will we.

Securing the future Post Office’s future:

We are working hard to ensure that the next chapter of the Post Office’s history is a bright one.

We are the current guardians of an iconic business and we want to hand over a thriving network
of branches which can continue to provide essential products and services for our customers for

many years to come. This is a uniquely exciting and challenging time for the Post Office - we’re
shaping the future and creating a business we can all be proud of.

Working at the Post Office:
Post Office colleagues are the driving force behind our business. Whether they are in our branches
or supporting from our offices, we are proud of the energy, commitment and customer focus our
people all have in common.
Our ways of working:
We're here in person, for the people who rely on us

We work in partnership

We are one team

We deliver

Working in partnership as one team, we deliver amazing results. We are the Post Office.

The basics
Job Title: Group Company Secretary
Grade: TBC
Post Reports to: General Counsel
Division: Legal, Compliance and Governance
Business Unit: Company Secretariat
Budget Responsibility: Company Secretariat and Non-Executive Directors
Number of Direct Reports: 4
Location: London - Finsbury Dials

The purpose of the role

Page 2 of 4
POL00448730
POL00448730

The Group Company Secretary will be responsible for leading and managing the Company
Secretariat function of Post Office Limited, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.

Principal accountabilities

e Group Company Secretary for Post Office Ltd., Post Office Management Services (POMS),
Payzone Bills Payments Ltd. and FRESH/ FRES (the joint venture with the Bank of Ireland).

e Support the Chairman, the Board and executives in ensuring the effective governance of the
Post Office group. Provide independent advice on governance matters. Assist the Chairman in
managing corporate governance requirements and the operation of the Board involving
executives, investors, and independent non-executive directors.

e Liaison between the company and its stakeholders and shareholders.

e Implement and maintain governance processes that (i) support the requirements of corporate
strategy, (ii) ensure compliance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, and (iii)
support and implement the requirements of the Chairman and Board.

« Management and administration of meetings of the group Boards and Committees. Direct and
co-ordinate the timely production and circulation of meeting papers, and meeting minutes.
Ensure meeting actions are logged and followed through to completion.

* Management of the contract execution process.

e Management and leadership of the Secretariat team. Looking to drive engagement and
increase performance.

e Effectively manage the Company Secretarial team budget to support the organisation in
achieving its financial plans and business objectives.

e Identify and drive forward strategic projects to enhance the Company Secretariat team’s
contribution to the business and raise its internal profile.

e Accountable for ensuring compliance with any specific legislative, regulatory, or contractual
requirements.

Qualifications, experience and skills

e ICSA qualified (or equivalent).

e Experience in regulated financial services business, and good knowledge of FCA regulatory
regime as it relates to governance.

e Proven ability to manage full company secretariat support for a group environment (ie a
number of boards and committees).

e Experience and gravitas to effectively support and advise independent chairman and NEDs.

e High standards of integrity, discretion and confidentiality.

e Great stakeholder management at the highest level (Chairman, Shareholders and NEDs),
gravitas and emotional intelligence.

« The ability to understand complex corporate issues, explain in a simple and accurate manner
and propose realistic solutions where needed.

e Well organised; able to manage own workload and that of the team; prioritise and work
autonomously or as part of a team as necessary.

Page 3 of 4
POL00448730
POL00448730

Where does this role fit in with the rest of the team?

Legal, Compliance and Governance

Senior Assistant
‘Company
Secretary

Company.
Se Secretariat
if I Administrator

‘Company
Secretariat

B
General Administrator
Counsel

IT permissions

Please note that the following section is to be completed by the Line Manager (deleting
any on the list that are not applicable and inserting any not already included):

IT permissions

Job Role Standard Job Role

IT Equipment IT Staff

Applications Standard Application Build
System Access Standard System Build

Other System/Application
Approved by [System
Owner]

Job Title [System Owner]
Date

Page 4 of 4
