POL00295167

POL00295167

From: Paula Vennells[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=PAULA. VENNELLS8C63D283-A51 1-46C3-A93E-
DC6F2AE7A78D]

Sent: Tue 03/04/2012 7:24:04 PM (UTC)

To: Alice Perkins[é~

Subject: Fwd: Oliver Letwin

Alice, see below. Then read my note.

My instinct is to forward Emily's note to Moya and say (again) that we will handle this independently. And I will
contact Oliver Letwin's office to do so.

But there are two issues here and I want to be sure I'm looking at both objectively: firstly, the Hotizon
challenge, secondly, the RM intervention.

Re Horizon, we should think through the options, esp as James Atbuthnot's name is mentioned.

Re RM/ Moya, It seems there is a letting go process that is proving difficult. (We have also had RM still wanting
to stay involved in signing off our procurements, which Jon M had to send a note out to clarify!)

We should talk tomorrow. But if your view is I should get back immediately, pls say. (If it wasn't for the political
sensitivities I would have done so already. And, I know that Moya has met OL several times; so there could just
be an angle of POL's best intetest to explore before I reject the proposal below!)

I will get Susan and Alwen in the loop.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone

Begin forwarded message:

From: Emily Pang ¢_
Date: 3 April 2012 1
To: Paula Vennells <~
Subject: Re: Hi there!

Paula

Moya just got off the phone with MP Letwin. He feels there is a systemic issue. He knows of a
postmistress Axminister who noted there was issues with horizon ("bizarre occurrences") and
asked POL IT to come and fix. She thought there were discrepancies between the receipts in
Horizon and her own of £2000. The PO then said no the discrepancy is £4000 and she was
suspended from using the system. Many people have come forward to say she is honest and he
personally vouches for her.

On top of this there was the subpostmistress of James Arburthnott who is the head of security for
the houses of parliament. He said the exact same thing happened with the same amounts (£2000
and £4000) with his postmistress and he (James) also vouches for her.

Moya has committed that you and her will go brief Mr Letwin together in a couple weeks. Mr
Letwin has been a big supporter of RM Group including PO so Moya would greatly appreciate if
POL00295167
POL00295167

you can please initiate an investigation of these issues in a fully challenging way as soon as
possible so that you two may discuss this in the next week or so and then go to Mr letwin
together.

Thanks so much!

Best regards

Emily Pang
Chief of Staff
Royal Mail Group

woos Original Message -----

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: Tuesday, April 03, 2012 12:39 PM
To: Emily Pang

Subject: RE: Hi there!

Emily

I know Paula just came out of her ET meeting (which is offsite) to call Moya. I've text her to ask
her to call you.

Please let me know if this doesn't happen in the next few minutes and I'll phone Linklaters and get
another message taken into her.

Thanks
Theresa

From: Emily Pang

Sent: 03 April 2012 11:33
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Hi there!

Moya is just speaking to front line managers and asked that I call you. I just called and got vmail.
Can you pls call my mobile? { }

Thanks!

Emily Pang

Chief of Staff

Royal Mail Group

