POL00059726
POL00059726

A list of partners is available at each office.
VAT Registration No, 737 8372 95. GEASS OLLI C1 TOR S EE

Top ranked a i i
UK © ee ae CartwrightKing

Top Ranked Recommended

Nottingham I Birmingham I Leicester I Derby I Sheffield I NewcastleGateshead
www.cartwrightking.co.uk

RESTRICTED
Permanent House
31 Horsefair Street
Leicester
LE1 5BU
Secure Email:

Date: 15 February 2013
Our Ref: AB2/24040

Dear Sirs

LETTER TO DEFENCE WHERE THERE IS MATERIAL TO DISCLOSE - ONGOING
DISCLOSURE (DEFENCE CASE STATEMENT)

R v Angela SEFTON and Anne NIELD
COURT AND NEXT HEARING DATE: Liverpool Crown Court - w/c 15.04.2013

I have considered your defence statement dated provided under Section 5 Criminal
Procedure and Investigations Act 1996 (CPIA). Under section 7 CPIA I am required to
disclose to you any prosecution material which has not been previously disclosed and
which might reasonably be expected to assist your defence, as described in your
statement.

A copy of a schedule of non-sensitive unused material prepared by the police has already
been sent to you. The items listed below are those which I consider might reasonably be
expected to assist your defence, as described in your statement, and which have not
already been disclosed to you. The numbers refer to the numbers on the schedule
previously provided. Where indicated, copies of the items listed are attached. Material
marked as available for inspection can be viewed by arrangement with the disclosure
officer.

An additional MG6C schedule has been produced and is attached and has been endorsed.

eR A EER ET ET TTT
POL-0056205
POL00059726
POL00059726

This material is disclosed to you in accordance with the provisions of the CPIA, and you
must not use or disclose it, or any information recorded in it for any purpose other than in
connection with these criminal proceedings. If you do so without the permission of the
court, you may commit an offence.

If you consider that there is other prosecution material which might assist your defence
and which has not already been disclosed, please let me know and I will consider my
decision in the light of any further information that you provide. Alternatively, you may
apply to the court under section 8 CPIA. The court will assess your application in the light
of your defence statement.

If you request access to any item which has been marked for disclosure by inspection, it is
essential that you preserve this letter in its present form, as access will only be granted

upon production of this letter and the schedule previously provided to the person
supervising access.

If you have a query in connection with this letter, please contact me.

Yours faithfully

Andrew Bolc
Solicitor

POL-0056205
