POLO0166762

POL00166762
Raymond Grant To: Diane Matthews/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFI
28/07/2008 11:54 GL@POSTOFFICE, Brian Trotter/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Judith Trott:
Subject: STAKEHOLDER NOTIFICATION

This email is to notify you of the commencement of an investigation.

N.B. Please do not divulge this information to any other person without the authority of
the investigating officer.

Stakeholder Notification

Notification must be emailed to Primary Stakeholder & copied to Team Leader, Secondary
Stakeholder & multiples@postoffice.co.uk where applicable.

Case POLTD/0809/0082

reference:

lOffice/Loca I Paible SPSO

tion:

[Address/Tel] Paible Post Office, Bayhead Shop, Paible, Lochmaddy,I

No: IHS6 5DS, Scotland,

Branch 147869

Code:

Brief Business concerns over increases in cash on hand

Details: figures combined with failures to return cash
instigated audit attendance, shortage found. At present]
Ino Audit report received although email to follow,
which outlines finding of shortage in excess of £40k it
lis the intention of this department to interview
Mr Quarm about this matter at the earliest
lopportunity

I will appraise you of any significant developments throughout the investigation and
would be grateful if you could keep me informed of anything that may affect or inform my
enquiries. Additionally, you will be advised prior to any actions being taken, as part of
the enquiry, (staff interviews / on site enquiries) that may impact on the operational
efficiency of the location affected. In the event that staff / agent interviews are
undertaken then you will be supplied with sufficient detail of their content in order to deal
with any conduct issues that may arise.

You will be advised of the final outcome of this enquiry along with details of any
weaknesses / failings that may have facilitated the incident in question. You may be
asked to provide feedback about this investigation following case closure.

If you need any further information during the course of the investigation, please feel free
to contact me at any time on the number below. In the event that I am not available and
i jired please do not hesitate to contact my Team Leader,Diane Matthews

Regards,
POL00166762
POL00166762

Raymond Grant
Investigation Team

Investigator

Post Office Ltd

Operations

Security Room, First Floor,
53 Feus Road,

Perth

“Extemal Email aymond.grant( GF

Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail
“THINK BEFORE YOU PRINT"

"If you wish to make a report concerning crime or suspected crime against Post Office Ltd please
contact the Network Business Support Centre on

