ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Document Title:

Document Type:

Release:

Abstract:

Document Status:

Originator & Dept:

Contributors:

Reviewed By:

Comments By:

Comments To:

Distribution:

Operations Manual for the Customer Service Directorate
Manual
N/A

This document outlines the organisation and services provided by
the Customer Service Directorate within ICL Pathway

For Review internal to Customer Service
A. Nicholson, Business Effectiveness Team

Richard Brunskill, Dave Law, Mike Stewart, Pat Lywood, Reg
Barton, Graham Hooper, Eric Hillier, Dave Wilcox

Peter Burden, Richard Brunskill, Dave Law, Mike Stewart, Pat
Lywood, Reg Barton, Graham Hooper, Eric Hillier, Dave Wilcox

Customer Service Management Team
ICL Pathway Document Management
ICL Pathway BMS Site

ICL Pathway Programme Directorate, Business Effectiveness
Team (for maintenance)

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd

Commercial in Confidence Page: lof 86

F/106.1/1
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01
0.0 Document Control
0.1 Document History
ersion No. [Date [Reason for Issue
1 26/9/01 [First Draft
.2 22/11/01 Issued for internal review
0.2 Approval Authorities
lame Position Signature [Date
artin Riddell Director, Customer Service
0.3 Associated Documents
Reference \Version [Date [Title Source
ICS/QMS/001 (Customer Service Policy Manual = [CL
[Pathway
(CS/QMS/002 (Customer Service Process Manual [ICL
[Pathway
ICS/PRO/105 1.0 29/02/00 [Local Procedure when raising al[CL
[Purchase Order [Pathway
ICS/PRD/021 ICL Pathway CS ProblemI[CL
anagement Process [Pathway
(CS/PRD/023 [ICL Pathway Office DesktopI[CL
\Ordering Process [Pathway
ICS/PRD/029 [Process for Operational BusinessIICL
(Change - Outlet [Pathway
ICS/PRD/030 [Process for Operational BusinessI[(CL
(Change - Product [Pathway
ICS/PRD/031 [CL Pathway Business Continuity[CL
[Management [Pathway
ICS/PRD/050 [Process for Operational BusinessI[CL
(Change Reference Data [Pathway
ICS/PRD/058 [Interface agreement for Referencel[CL
[Data [Pathway
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 20f 86

F/106.1/2
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

\CS/PRD/074 [CL Pathway cs IncidentICL
anagement Process [Pathway

\CS/PRD/076 Service Visit Reply Card Process [ICL
[Pathway

ICS/PRD/081 ICL Pathway CS End to EndiiCL
(Customer Complaints Process [Pathway

\CS/PRD/086 [Release management Processes [CL
[Pathway

\CS/PRD/090 (Operational Business Change-Outlet[CL
\Change-Invoicing Process [Pathway

ICS/PRD/093 [ICL Pathway Divisional Alert[CL
[Process [Pathway

Unless a specific version is referred to above, reference should be made to the current
approved versions of the documents.

0.4 Abbreviations/Definitions

\A bbreviation Definition
AIS IA pplication Interface Specification
[AP [Automated Payment
IAPS [Automated Payment Service
IBMS [Business Management System
IBRE [Business Research Establishment
IBSA [Business Support Analyst
CA (Contracting Authorities
(CCP (Change Control Proposal
CD (Counter Development
(CEM (Call Enquiry Matrix
CM (Configuration Management
ICP (Change Proposal
ICS (Customer Service
(CSPM (Customer Service Problem Manager
(CTO (Client take on
IDM [Duty Manager
IDN Draft note
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 3 0f 86

F/106.1/3
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01
IDPA [Data Protection Act
IEPOSS [Electronic Point of Sale Service
IFRMS [Fraud Risk Management Service
IHSH [Horizon System Helpdesk
IHSRF [Horizon Service Review Forum, a joint review of the service heldI
etween POCL and ICL Pathway

IHSSM [Horizon System Service Management
IRF Invoice Request Form

CVP anagement Care Visit Programme

IS Management Information Systems

SU anagement Support Unit

TBF ean Time Between Failures

BSC etwork Business Support Centre, part of POCL’s organisation
(OBC (Operational Business Change
OLA (Operational Level Agreement
(ORR (Operational Readiness Review
(OSG Main ICL Pathway contact in POCL for product change
(OSR (Operational Service Review
IPinICL IA problem incident notice raised by ICL Pathway
IPM. [Problem Manager
IPMD [Problem Management Database
IPMS [Pathway Security Manager
IPOCL Post Office Counters Limited
IPORF [Purchase Order Request Form
IPPD [Processes and Procedures Description
IPVCS [A Proprietary Configuration Management System developed byI

Merant International Ltd’

MS uality Management System
IRDCC Reference Data Change Catalogue
IRDMC [Reference Data Management Centre (a ICL Pathway database)
IRDS. [Reference Data System (a POCL database)
IRDT [Reference Data Team

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 4of 86

F/106.1/4
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01
IRED Reconciliation Exception Database
IRTR [Real Time Recording
ISLA Service Level Agreement
ISLAM Service Level Agreement Monitor
LCA Service Level Contract Administrator
SMB Service Manager - Benchmarking
MC System Management Centre
ISSC System Support Centre
(TIP [Transaction Information Processing

0.5 Changes in this Version

ersion Changes
1 one, this is the first version
.2 [Incorporates additional sections plus issued for intemal review

0.6 Changes Expected
(Changes

\Update following intemal review and subsequently issued as Approved

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: Sof 86

F/106.1/5
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

0.7 Table of Contents

1.0 INTRODUCTION 7
2.0 ORGANISATION 8
3.0 SERVICES PROVIDED 9
3.1 System Support Centre 9
3.2 SSC reference kit 15
3.3 Diagnostic information 17
3.4 Diagnostic tools 17
3.5 SSC intranet site 18
3.6 Access to the live system 20
3.7 Additional technical support to Pathway CS 20
3.8 Client Interface management 21
3.9 Operations Services 24
3.10 Operational Support Services 29
3.11 Reference Data Management 31
3.12 Outlet Business Change (Dave Law) 35
3.13 Field Service Management (Reg Barton) 35
3.14 Service Management (Dave Law) 35
3.15 Problem Management 35
3.16 New Service Introductions 39
3.17 Management Support 52
3.18 Security Management 67
3.19 Management Accounting 84
3.20 Management Planning 85

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd

Commercial in Confidence

Page: 6 of 86

F/106.1/6
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

1.0 Introduction

The mission statement of the Customer Service Directorate is:
“We provide cost effective services to the Post Office which meets our SLAs
The Post Office regard us as a valued partner

ICL see us as the ‘best of breed’ service organisation”

This Operations Manual defines the key services that are provided by Customer
Service to underpin the Mission Statement.

Each section details the following standard set of information:

Roles/Responsibilities

* Key processes owned/used

* Customer/Supplier Interfaces (e.g. Formal reviews held)

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 7of 86

F/106.1/7
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01
2.0 Organisation
At the time of approval of this plan the top-level organisation chart is as follows:
For the latest version please refer to the “organisation charts” folder located on: -
Olpublic on svfel0lpweln1. (The Q drive)
MarinFicttl
Gare SriceDret
SeareStith I Rosny Wis
FA Sareiay-- Mregerert Acourtert
[ T
Pirin Qdenttpr Ptlywood Pull Weide
Qudios Seautyharege ‘Sevicelrtck.ticnNireger Infestcture Savices Mreger
8SpqntSaicesMrege
‘Seer PéeRiiren  BiicHllier
BisiressGreueart > Serio Achterivtrege
Saar Grte Reoharegr
VidorGagh
Quatre Saves Mo Sadcottvaicion Ssreshs
f i 1
DaeViiex RyBrn RdwoBuekd Drelav
Riera FddSnceMreas = MregnetSamtMregr  SetejcSniesMregr
stint
Gertintatee
Fassnaetrapret Sates Smt assasresmp
BriaRcks
‘Sr BsresGratat
L tartvett © snbettragret
Lets
Snasfetraw
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 8 of 86

F/106.1/8
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.0 Services Provided

3.1 System Support Centre

3.1.1 Overview

The principles by which the SSC operates are documented in End-to-End
Support Process Operational Level Agreement (CS/FSP/006) which defines
the responsibilities of the four levels of support towards each other. This
document is effectively a service level agreement between the support units,
outlining specific tasks and measures of success.

The aim of the SSC is to provide a support capability to Pathway that resolves
technical problems in the minimum time and with the minimum amount of
disruption to the service. The SSC aims to provide a centre of technical
expertise for Customer Service, providing technical advice, guidance, and
expertise relating to all parts of the Pathway system.

More specifically the SSC has responsibilities to:
* First and second line support

Fourth line support

3.1.2 Roles/Responsibilities

The responsibilities of the SSC to first and second line support, that is the
Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH) and the System Management Centre (SMC)
respectively, are to:

1. Receive incidents passed from the HSH and SMC.

2. Ensure that any incidents received are maintained on the call
management system. When updates are made to the calls that are
relevant to the HSH or SMC, the SSC ensures that these updates
reach the Powerhelp system

3. Ensure that the reported incident is resolved correctly and the
solution is recorded on the PinICL system

4. Ensure that the incident and solution are passed back to the HSH
and SMC call management system. The solution includes a full
explanation for the problem and the action taken to resolve it

5. Ensure that the incident is resolved within the total time allowed by
the contract between the customer and Pathway

6. Ensure that the HSH and SMC are made aware of the evidence
requirements for any form of incident and that this documentation is
fully maintained

7. Create and maintain a register of known deficiencies within the
Pathway system and the solution to these problems, where known

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 9of 86
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Allow the HSH and SMC access to this register so that they can
fulfil their function of filtering out known errors

Ensure that any solutions or workarounds they pass to the SMC
have been tested and have been correctly authorised via the
software release management process

10.Ensure that the HSH and SMC are supplied with documentation

relating to new releases of software in sufficient time to enable their
staff to become familiar with the product prior to its release

11.Ensure that, for any incident which has been solved and passed

back to the Powerhelp system, the customer has been contacted
and made aware of the call closure

12.Hold workshops and skills transfer sessions relating to technical

aspects of the Pathway system and diagnostic techniques

13. Ensure that the following figures are available to the HSH and SMC.

on demand:
(a) Number of calls by priority currently outstanding with the SSC

(b) Number of calls where resolution has been deferred to the next
release

(c) Number of calls by age currently outstanding with the SSC or
fourth line support unit

3.1.3 SSC responsibilities to fourth line support

The responsibilities of the SSC to fourth line support are to:

1.
2.

Log all calls on a call management system

Filter out all calls for which the problem is already known to the
support community and for which a solution is already known or has
been generated. This includes problems for which the SSC knows
a resolution but has not yet incorporated the resolution into the
known error log

Retain duplicate incidents in the PinICL systems and ensure that
when the resolved incident is received by the SSC the duplicated
calls are closed.

Duplicate incidents are repetitions of an incident that has already
been passed to fourth line support.

Ensure that the correct evidence for any problem is collected prior
to the incident being passed to fourth line support for investigation.

Ensure that any incident that requires investigation by fourth line
support is assigned to the correct PinICL team depending upon the
specific product in which the incident has occurred

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 10 of 86

F/106.1/10
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

. Ensure that any updates made to incidents passed to the SSC are

sent to the fourth line support units

. Ensure that any calls passed to fourth line support units are passed

in a timely manner. The timing varies depending on the priority of a
call

. Ensure that the priority of any incident is assessed and recorded

correctly

. Filter out all calls for which the problem is not one of the following:

(a) Software error
(b) Documentation error

10.Ensure that for any incident passed to fourth line support the exact

area of the problem has been identified and, wherever possible, a
workaround has already been produced

11.Ensure that, for any code error, a probable solution is indicated prior

to passing the incident to fourth line support and, wherever
possible, the proposed solution has undergone limited testing

12. Accept full responsibility for the product, including fourth line

support, and for the production of any code required to resolve
incidents, for areas of the Pathway system where the product has
matured, that is, no further releases of the product are expected

13.Create and maintain a register of known deficiencies of the Pathway

system and the solution to these problems, where known, and allow
access to this register to fourth line units so that they can enter
details of solutions created within their area

3.1.4 Role of the SSC relating to Application Support

The SSC within Pathway Customer Service provides third line support for
most applications.

The SSC uses PinICL as its call management system and diagnostic database.
Calls from second line support are transferred from Powerhelp to PinICL via
an OTI link, and updates to the PinICL calls are transferred back to second
line support using the same mechanism.

When the SSC receives a call from second line support, second line support
has already assessed the call as a software problem and flagged it with the
appropriate priority. The SSC handles the call as follows:

1. The SSC checks details of known problems on the intranet site to

determine whether or not the problem is similar or identical to a
problem already known.

. Ifthe problem is known, the SSC carries out any pre-authorised

actions that are available to it, for example, workarounds in the KEL

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: ll of 86

F/106.1/11
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

If the problem is not known, the SSC checks the diagnostic
evidence and, if necessary, obtains further evidence from the live
system to determine the nature of the fault.

The SSC also uses its reference kit to recreate the symptoms
reported by the customer and may then be able to obtain diagnostic
data in a controlled fashion

If the problem is identified as a code fault, the SSC determines the
area of code that has failed and, if possible, identifies a solution to
the problem for fourth line support to implement. If possible, it tests
the proposed solution before passing the call to fourth line support

If the problem is urgent, that is, a workaround has not been found,
the SSC escalates the problem to fourth line support via PinICL.
Note that any urgent corrective action is a one-off implementation of
the solution to the problem.

If the problem is not urgent, for example, a workaround has been
implemented, the customer is satisfied and the support call has
been cleared, the SSC still passes the problem to fourth line
support via PinICL to generate a permanent fix. However, the SSC
Manager may lower the priority of the PinICL to reflect the lack of
urgency of the problem

. Ifthe problem is not identified as a code fault, the SSC identifies the

exact nature of the fault and isolates the system that caused the
symptoms. This may happen, for example, when the code is
operating within specification but the customer reports symptoms
which were not expected

. Once the SSC has passed the call to fourth line support, it remains

responsible for ensuring that the call is dealt with in a timely manner
and for informing the SMC and HSH of any updates to the call

The SSC identifies the software that needs to be released permanently to
the live environment as the long-term solution to the problem and notifies
the CSRM accordingly

Note. Closing calls on PinICL and Powerhelp

*

The SSC closes a call on PinICL when a resolution has been
identified for the call and the details passed to the SMC, for
example, a definition of the release that will contain the fix, as
detailed in the release management process

The SMC and HSH use PowerHelp and close a call when the fix
has been distributed to the relevant equipment. This may be fairly
simple if it is on the central servers, but it may involve considerable
work if it requires a code release to all post office counters

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 12 of 86

F/106.1/12
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.1.5

3.1.6

3.1.7

3.1.8

Role of fourth line support

The fourth line support unit receives the request and does one of the
following:

* Returns with a recommendation for action that the SSC can carry
out

Returns with a workaround that the SSC can progress as if it had
generated it

* Rejects the request, for example, on the grounds that the problem
will be resolved in a system software release that is due imminently

* Identifies a fix but does not produce it until authorised by the
Release Management Forum

Where necessary, internal Pathway fourth line support also provides the
interface with PinICL for external fourth line support units and updates the
PinICL with progress reports.

A number of units provide fourth line support to the Pathway system as
described in the following sections.

Pathway Development

These development teams use the PinICL system to manage calls. Their
process is essentially the same as the SSC with the exception that any
development required to resolve a problem goes through the release
management process.

The SSC and the development team discuss the problem and assign the
PinICL call to either a specific development team, if the product has been
identified, or to the general development team, if not.

If the development team requires additional information, it redirects the call
back to the SSC, which returns the call to the development team once they
have obtained the required additional information.

If a patch is produced to resolve the call, this is handled through the release
management process.
Escher

Escher also uses the PinICL system. The process for routing a call to Escher is
via the Pathway development team and therefore the process is as described
above.

ISD

Generally where ISD acts as fourth line support, it also has responsibility for
first, second and third line support - therefore, the procedures involved are
entirely ISD internal procedures. In those instances where SSC, not ISD,

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 13 of 86

F/106.1/13
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

provides third line support the procedures as defined in 4.2.4.1 will be
followed.

3.1.9 Eicon

Eicon do not use the PinICL system, but require calls to be logged by calling
ote that this telephone diverts outside normal office hours to
Eicon’s Canadian call centre. 12 SSC staff are registered with Eicon as having
the authority to raise calls, and 2 SSC staff members have undergone training
with Eicon in diagnostic requirements.

Escalation to Eicon management for any issues is via the SSC manager and
the Eicon Service manager. As of 03/09/2001 this was Dan Dixon,

The Finance Director holds the Eicon contract in FELO1

3.1.10 The Role of the SSC relating to Operational change

The SSC has access to the live system which can be used to correct data on the
system when this has been corrupted in some way. The procedure for doing
this is as follows:

The originator of the change:

1. Completes an Operational Correction Request (OCR) form for every
change to data on the live system.

The originator may be anyone within ICL Pathway, but is normally
the Duty Manager, or a Problem Manager or Business Support
Manager when an incident or problem has been caused by an error
in the data. An SSC staff member who detects that the data in the
system has become corrupted in the course of diagnosing a fault
can also complete it. In the case of an SSC staff member, the form
is completed on the SSC web site direct, other people currently
complete a Microsoft Word version of the form and use email.

2. Emails the OCR form to an authoriser, electronically signing it
where possible, and where this is not possible, telephoning the
authoriser to confirm that they are sending an OCR. For SSC staff
members, the OCR form on the web must always be digitally
signed.

The authoriser must be one of the following:
* Duty Manager

* Business Support Manager

* CS Operations Manager
* SSC Manager

* Release Manager

The authoriser:

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 14 of 86

F/106.1/14
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

1. Authorises the change, or reports back to the originator why they
are not authorising the change

2. Forwards the OCR form to the SSC electronically with an encrypted
electronic signature file, or in the case of the SSC manager digitally
sign the web-held OCR.

The SSC staff member who is to perform the change:
3. Checks the electronic signature of the authoriser

4. Stores the OCR form and the signature file in the received OCRs
folder on the SSC server

5. Wherever possible, produces a script to make the data change and
tests the script on the SSC reference rig prior to running it on the
live system

6. Completes the relevant sections on the OCR form to confirm
whether they have produced and tested a script or not

7. Prior to making the change on the live system, documents the
state of the affected part of the system and completes the
regression path details on the OCR form.

Note. If no regression path is possible, this must be stated on the
OCR form

8. Makes the change on the live system.

At least two people must be present when making changes to the
live system. Normally these are SSC staff, but can be one SSC staff
member and one person from the fourth line support unit
responsible for the area in which the data change will take place, or
one SSC staff member and one ISD staff member

9. On completing the data change, documents the state of the affected
part of the system and mails an electronically signed copy of the
OCR form to the second person who was present while making the
change.

10. The second person also electronically signs the form and emails it
to either the SSC Manager or the SSC web site controller. In the
case of an SSC raised and authorised OCR, both staff members
digitally sign the web-held OCR form.

11.Updates the PinICL and reports back to the originator to confirm
that the change has been completed

The SSC Manager or SSC web site controller:
12.Checks the electronic signatures
13.Files the OCR in the completed OCR folder on the SSC server

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 1S of 86

F/106.1/15
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505
Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.2. SSC reference kit
3.2.1 Overview
The SSC reference kit consists of a rig at BRAO1.
ISD maintains the rig. The rig is formally “owned” by the Pathway Testing teams, but
with an agreement for the SSC to take priority on it at no notice in order to reproduce
an urgent fault.
The general requirement is for the SSC to have reference kit that mirrors as closely as
possible the equipment in use at any post office. The function of this kit is to
duplicate problems reported by customers in a controlled fashion. The SSC also uses
the reference kit to provide a link to live system diagnosis and, where authorised, data
change.
3.2.2 Updating the hardware asset register
The SSC maintains a hardware asset register for all of Pathway CS. The following
section describes the procedure to add to and remove hardware from the asset register.
Note that this procedure includes all CS IT kit not just reference kit.
3.2.2.1 Adding new hardware
Whenever hardware is added within Pathway CS at Bracknell the asset register is
updated. The CS staff member sends an email to the SSC Manager in the following
format:
Asset Serial ICL serial number
Asset Manufact Serial Manufacturer's serial number (non-ICL)
Asset Product For example, Compaq Deskpro
Asset Owner For example, Rig xxx
Asset Owner Building BRAOI
Asset Owner Location For example, Rig Room
Asset Owner Charge Code For example, UPA66
Asset Comments For example, Correspondence Server C
Asset hw or sw HW or SW
Owning Asset For example, Rig name
Value at Purchase If known
Date of purchase Formatted as dd/mm/yy
Depreciation Years Always 3
Current Value Leave blank
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 160f 86

F/106.1/16
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.2.2.

3.3

3.3.1

3.3.2

3.4

3.4.1

2 Removing hardware

Whenever hardware is removed from Pathway CS at BRAOI, the asset register is
updated. The CS staff member sends an email to the SSC Manager in the following
format:

Asset Serial ICL serial number
Asset Manufact Serial Manufacturer's serial number (non-ICL)

Asset Comments Where to

Diagnostic information

The SSC, as third line support for products in the Pathway system, has responsibility
for ensuring that first and second line support units are provided with sufficient
information to enable them to diagnose known problems correctly and to provide
advice and guidance to the customers.

In this way, support requests from customers that are passed to the SSC should be
restricted to either complex end-to-end process problems that require in-depth
analysis of all of the systems involved or new software faults.

Maintaining the Known Error Log on the SSC intranet site

The SSC generates and maintains a Known Error Log (KEL) system that uses
searchable documents in HTML format. The mechanism for searching is a query
entry in an intranet site. The KEL system is available to first, second, third and fourth
line support units as well as SSC staff.

Transferring knowledge between support units

The SSC intranet site has KEL search facilities and other useful diagnostic data,
documents and tools.

SSC and SMC staff raise KELs based on customer-observed symptoms
KELs are further maintained once the fault has been resolved.

Other diagnostic information, including support Guides for the various products are
also held on the SSC intranet site, as are contact numbers for SSC and ISD staff.
These documents are NOT controlled however, and in case of any doubt, reference
needs to be made to the master copies of the documents which are held in PVCS.

Diagnostic tools

Overview

The SSC develops and maintains tools that can assist in the diagnostic process. The
SSC diagnosticians develop the tools themselves; the individual authors are
responsible for maintaining these developments.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 17 of 86

F/106.1/17
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Development is performed on an ad hoc basis whenever there is a requirement to
generate a tool to assist in the diagnosis of faults.

All diagnostic tools are registered on the SSC intranet site.

The tools themselves are made available to all members of the SSC and, where they
are able to assist other support units within Pathway, they are made accessible
together with any documentation about their use.

3.4.2 Developing diagnostic tools

Before developing a diagnostic tool, establish whether or not the required tool has
already been produced by reference to the diagnostic tools database on the SSC
intranet site. This database contains details of known diagnostic tools developed in
the SSC and by other support units.

1. If asuitable tool already exists, it should be used

2. Ifa suitable tool does not already exist, the SSC staff member:
(a) Defines the requirement for the tool to the SSC Manager
(b) Waits for authorisation before proceeding

3. If the diagnostician has sufficient development skills to develop the tool
him or herself, the SSC Manager schedules the development work
required

4. Ifthe diagnostician does not have sufficient development skills to develop
the tool, the SSC Manager:

(a) If these skills are available within the SSC, identifies the resource
required to develop the tool

(b) If necessary, goes outside the SSC to obtain the development
resource

5. Log the fact that the tool is being developed in the diagnostic tools
database on the SSC intranet site and forward this information to all of the
relevant units which may have use of this tool

6. Maintain a copy of the tool in the diagnostic database on the SSC intranet
site

3.5 SSC intranet site

This site was created by and is maintained by SSC staff, although it provides a
resource for other support staff within the Pathway estate.

The following sections describe the key features of the site. As the contents of the site
are under constant review, the following details may change.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 18 of 86

F/106.1/18
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.5.1

Known Error Logs (KELs)

The intranet site holds known error details in HTML format, the contents of which
may be searched for, in full text form. Documents are created to a defined template
wherever possible. An application has been generated which limits the properties of
the document to a subset of possible values, for clarity and ease of search. This
application is made available to all support units.

The process for creating KEL entries outside of the SSC has not yet been formulated,
but it is expected that no KEL will be allowed onto the system before it has been
authorised by SSC staff.

Change proposals

The intranet site holds copies of each Change Proposal (CP) in a searchable form as
HTML documents. These documents are not definitive. As copies of the CPs are
taken before they reach the Pathway Change Control Board the status of any CP is
indeterminate - it may, or may not, have been approved.

Maintaining the CPs in this form allows diagnosticians to see that someone has
looked at an activity in an area of the Pathway operations regardless of whether or not
that activity was actually carried out.

Release management

The Release Management database is held on the same server as the Intranet site. This
database is used to control the flow of fixes through the Operational Testing processes
and through release to the live environment.

The intranet site provides a controlled interface to this database, allowing searches to
be made by:

* Date
For example, show all fixes applied to the live environment since date xxxx
*  PinICL

For example, show the state of a PinlCL in the release process (delivered, due to
be tested, due to be released to live)

3.5.4

Similar searches can be made on a Release note as described for a PinICL.

Operational Change/Corrections

The intranet site holds copies of both SSC Operational Correction Requests and ISD
Operation Change Requests. The intention being to provide a mechanism in which
both urgent and planned changes at the operational level can be viewed quickly.

ISD have control over the ISD change requests, and the SSC intranet site provides a
repository and search mechanism only. For SSC Correction requests, inserting the
data into the intranet server is mandated by the process — Appendix B of this
document.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 19 0f 86

F/106.1/19
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.5.

on

Work Instructions

There is a requirement for Work Instructions which may augment, or temporarily
replace documented procedures. These are logged and maintained on the SSC Intranet
site. There is a password protection mechanism, so that only the SSC manager, or
nominated deputy, can create new, or amend existing Work Instructions. All staff are
allowed to search the work instructions

3.5.6 Other facilities

The intranet site also contains smaller sections that provide:
1. Links to commonly used web sites

2. A bulletin board for SSC staff to add points of interest regarding the
operation of the live system

3. Access to commonly used SQL queries and other items of code
4. Access to various documents relating to the live system

3.6 Access to the live system

All diagnostic staff in the SSC (product specialists and systems specialists) have
access to the live system via PCs (see Appendix D for build details) that are
connected to a private LAN in BRAO1. Patch panels enable staff to use these PCs to
access the test rigs in BRAO1.

The build script for these PCs was written by and is held by the SSC. The PC build
was performed in accordance with the Access Control Policy, and a copy is registered
in PVCS.

Access from the PCs to the live system to the live system is controlled by SecureID,
uses firewalls, and an encrypted link, and conforms to the Access Control Policy.

The SSC access to the system is for two purposes:

Assist in diagnosis of problems on the live system

*

Correct data which has become corrupted

In the second case, SSC staff may only correct data in response to an authorised
Operational Correction Request and only then when there are two or more people
present.

3.7 Additional technical support to Pathway CS

In addition to the normal support activities, the SSC provides other technical
resources to Pathway CS. It is the only unit with sufficient access to the live systems
to be able, for example, to analyse:

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 20 of 86

F/106.1/20
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.8

Riposte message store

Counter event logs

* Central system NT event logs

Consequently, the SSC runs daily checks for:

* Post offices that have not communicated with the central systems for 24 hours

* Any NT events that indicate that TIP processing has failed or that transactions

have not been harvested

It is also able to respond to other specific requests such as:

*

Number of reboots performed by each counter in the estate

Analysing the message store to investigate a suspected breach of security at a
counter or one of the central systems

CS units requiring such information contact the SSC Manager or the appropriate
diagnostician who deals with the request as promptly as possible.

The SSC also acts as a development unit for tools which may be required by ICL
Pathway CS, and other (e.g. HSH/SMC) support units.

Such developments can be requested by any member of ICL Pathway Customer
Service, or by unit managers from other support units. The developments must be
registered with the SSC manager, who will authorise the development, allocate the
relevant staff, and maintain a record of the development being produced and the
expected delivery times.

These developments are intended to improve the productivity of the staff requesting
them, and do not form any part of the ICL Pathway live estate, and are therefore do
not conform to the documentation or testing standards required for the ICL Pathway
system.

Client Interface management

This unit is responsible for the introduction and ongoing management of services
relating to the client interfaces - HAPS, APS clients, LFS and TIP, ensuring the
service is delivered within the agreed parameters and operational timetables. Its
responsibilities are:

* Service development including the preparation and review of processes,

procedures and documentation, client liaison (including Client Take On),
developing support arrangements and participation in test programmes.

Service introduction including the development and delivery of a service
introduction plan containing details of delivery milestones, SLA and OLA
targets and support requirements.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 21 of 86

F/106.1/21
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Ongoing Service Management support for implemented services covering
operational reviews and service improvement planning, MIS analysis and
problem management.

There are a number of interfaces in place that facilitate the delivery of transaction
files between the ICL Pathway and POCL infrastructure. These are different to the
ISDN connections to POCL Outlets. The service is responsible for ensuring that
transactions, harvested from the POCL Outlets, are delivered to POCL, through the
appropriate interface, in accordance with the Service Schedule Agreements. Each
interface and its corresponding SLA is managed as an individual service, but in some
areas may involve other interfaces.

The service provided is based on the contents of the Service Definition Agreements
(Schedule 701), Service Levels and Remedies Agreements (Schedule 708) and the
Service Management Agreement (Schedule 705). These are contract controlled
documents and separate schedules are in place for each interface (7 = character
depicting specific interfaces).

There are four interfaces:
HAPS, APS clients( of which there are several), TIP and LFS.

3.8.1 The Service Introduction Plan (SIP)

As an aid to the Service Manager in delivering a full operational service around
the interface in question, a service introduction plan is prepared by the Service
Manager (where appropriate), which documents related information, requirements
and actions.

For example, this includes plans to date and milestone timescales, work still to be
done, relating documentation, SLAs and OLAs, support requirements, contacts
and links between interested parties.

3.8.2 Pre-Live Activities (Generic)

The following activities take place for each interface in preparation for Live
service. Some of the activities may over-spill into Live operation of the service.

* Liaison with the Development and Design teams to understand the Application

Interface and Technical Interface Specifications created.

Liaison with the Requirements team to review all agreements made and any
service descriptions in place, if produced.

Liaison with the client to commence the production of the OLA based on the
SLA and specification details. Eventually to become a formal Operational
Review meeting once the service is Live.

Participation in Workshops to prepare or review procedures (if and when
applicable).

Liaison with internal support services to ensure that they are aware of the SLA
and OLA commitments.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 22 of 86

F/106.1/22
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.8.3 Post-Live Acti

Set up of ICL Pathway/POCL Service Review with agreed Agenda.

Liaison with Business Continuity Manager to ensure Business Continuity and
Disaster Recovery procedures are documented.

Involvement in any operational test programmes, where requested.
Produce or review any related documents within ICL Pathway.

Review of any related documents produced by third party suppliers.
Review of any related documented produced by the customer, if requested.
Participation in the production and review of Incident Matrix.

Creation of risk registers.

Creation of project plans, if required.

Creation of new call categories within CEM, if required.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change Management
process, if required.

Set up and agreement of Client Take On (CTO) procedures, OLA and
schedules (outside of normal service management activities and relating in
APS only).

General, ad-hoc communication with the customer, other internal teams and.
third party suppliers through phone calls and Email.

Completion of actions arising from meetings held.

Implementation of Disaster Recovery solutions, where appropriate (and in
accordance with Change Management Procedures)

ities (Generic)

The following activities either take place as standard processes or are managed on
an ad-hoc basis in order to maintain or improve services.

*

Chair or attend Service Reviews (if appropriate and at agreed intervals -
usually monthly).

Escalation point for service related Incidents and Problems. To be managed as
per the standard procedures in place.

Escalation point for service related customer complaints. To be managed as
per the standard procedures in place (Incident or Problem Management
procedures). Generally a reactive service.

Review of OLA as part of Operational Review, as and when appropriate.

Processing of Change Requests submitted through the Change Management
process, if required.

Review of daily transaction delivery reports produced by third party suppliers.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 23 of 86

F/106.1/23
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.8.4

Review of monthly SLA Management statistical reports produced internally
(by MSU).

Manage or review any relating plans, where appropriate.

Ongoing review of procedures in place (any changes to go through Change
Management process). Usually highlighted through Workshops or Operational
Review meetings.

Implementation of Disaster Recovery solutions, where appropriate and in
accordance with Change Management procedures.

Participate in scheduled Contingency Tests, where appropriate.

Ad-Hoc Projects (Non-Generic)

On occasions additional activities require managing as individual projects, but
which relate to a generic service that is included in the Client Interface
Management objectives.

3.9 Operations Services

The Operations Services Unit is responsible for all aspects of live service operation.
The unit is divided into a number of units as shown in the following diagram.

3.9.1 Availability management
The following sections describe the different areas of availability management.
3.9.1.1 Duty management
This section describes operations relevant to the Duty Manager (DM).
The Duty Manager (DM) role is undertaken by Service Managers in CS
Operations Services on a rota. A Duty Manager handbook contains phone
numbers of Service Managers and other contacts, and copies of relevant
procedures.
The DM receives escalated calls from:
* The Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH)
* The System Management Centre (SMC)
* The Management Support Unit (MSU) or the System Support Centre
(SSC)
* POCL Service Management
The DM decides whether or not the incident needs to be managed through ICL
Pathway Problem Management procedures.
The document DSP/PRO/HH/010 Horizon System Helpdesk Incident
Procedures explains the types of calls that are escalated to the DM.
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 24 of 86

F/106.1/24
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.9.1.2

3.9.1.3

3.9.1.4

Types of call

The prioritisation of calls is described in Horizon System Helpdesk Incident
Prioritisation CS/FSP/005.

The DM receives calls from the HSH for the following circumstances:

* Specific A priority incidents (the different priority categories are described

in CS/FSP/005)
After the action times in the SLAs for both A and B priorities have elapsed

*

When necessary, the DM also receives calls out of HSH working hours from
the SMC/SSC or the ISD Duty Manager.

Duration of cover

The daily DM rota, (Weekdays only, Operational Hrs 0800-1800), is operated
by the Availability team.

At other times the OOH DM is resourced from a pool of ICL Pathway Service
Managers. Operational times are 1800-0800 weekly and 24 hour cover at the
weekends Sat/Sun.

There is a Daily update at 0800 from the OOH DM to the Daily DM to hand
over any outstanding calls or issues.

There is a daily update at 1800 from the Daily DM to the OOH DM to hand
over any outstanding calls or issues:

The handovers at the end of each shift on any outstanding problems or issues,
are by phone or in person to the relieving DM, although a DM may see a
particular problem through to completion, even after their duty period has
ended.

Duty management procedure
The overall duty management procedure is as follows:
1. The DM receives a high priority call that may indicate a possible problem

2. The DM finds out the details of the incident, problem or multiple incidents,
and may make initial phone calls to the support units to help decide
whether a problem exists (see 4.1.5 below).

If the incident is not a problem, the DM informs the caller to deal with it
through the normal A priority channels, ending the procedure.

Tf the incident is a problem, the DM initiates the Problem Management
Process as in the following steps

3. If the Problem Management Process is initiated, the DM (or maybe the PM
Problem Manager, currently under review in PM forum) enters the details
of the problem as a progress commentary in a new PinICL call in the
PinICL Problem Management Database. The PinICL call is assigned to the
Problem Management stack. However, if the problem needs to be dealt

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 25 of 86

F/106.1/25
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

with immediately, the DM enters the details on to the database following
completion of the immediate action. (If the incident occurred out of hours,
then the problem is recorded at the earliest opportunity)

4. The DM appoints the Problem Manager (PM) most capable of handling the
problem. In some cases, due to the levels of personnel available, the DM
may be the PM, particularly if the incident has occurred outside normal
working hours.

If the appropriate PM is unavailable or unable to manage the problem, the
DM escalates the problem to the appropriate Customer Service Manager
who will help to decide who the PM should be

5. Following nomination, the DM enters the PM on to the Problem Database
as the new owner (assignee) of the problem (this may already be done, see
note in 3, currently under review). The PinICL record is updated, closed
and possibly reviewed but remains on the Problem Management stack.

3.9.1.5 Deciding whether a problem exists
To help decide whether an incident is a problem, the DM considers the
following areas:
IAreas offProblem criteria
onsideration
[Business impact [* Adverse publicity on ICL Pathway.
[‘_Possible affects upon Release dates.
[Time scales [*_ The predicted time to resolve an incident is unacceptable.
(Customer I‘ Widespread customer dissatisfaction.
Klissatisfaction
[Breadth of problem * The incident affects more than 10 outlets.
[Does the problem classify as an MBCI
(Cost I’ The financial cost to ICL Pathway to resolve the incident isI
excessive and possibly impacts the ICL Pathway budget.
(Complexity \* A variety of resources that need managing are needed to resolve}
the incident.
I‘ Resources external to ICL Pathway are required, such as input
from POCL.
Security [*_The incident has possible security implications.
mpact on other I* The incident impacts other organisations such as POCL, and
rganisations they need to be informed.
If the DM is in doubt as to whether an incident is a problem, the incident is
resolved as a problem.
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 26 of 86

F/106.1/26
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.9.2

3.9.3

OCP changes

An operational change process (OCP) is also in operation. This process covers
changes required to the live operation and provides an audit trail for all changes
made to the operational estate (Not counter changes). This process is owned and
administered by ISD Service Management on a daily basis. The Daily Duty
Manager is responsible for the daily sign off as the CS representative but may
well seek the advise and sign off from the responsible Service Manager. All other
parties in CS Operations and ISD Operations are also signatories to the process.

Business continuity

A key requirement in the ICL Pathway solution is that of business continuity,
which is effected by producing operational processes and procedures to ensure
that any component failure has minimal effect on the service provided. Refer to
CS/PRD/031 (ICL Pathway CS Business Continuity Management) which defines
how Business Continuity is managed.

POCL and ICL Pathway recognise the term Business Continuity as having three
closely related components:

* Resilience

Steps taken to avert a loss of service or disaster or reduce the likelihood of a
disaster or loss of service

Contingency
Interim processes and procedures adopted during the loss of service

Recovery

Business and technical arrangements to restore a lost system or service and
manage the process of reversion to normal processing and full resumption of
service

The principal requirement with respect to the provision of contingency plans is
that they should conform to an overall service continuity framework. The
document Business Continuity Framework (CS/SIP/002) and associated
contingency plan documents for each component service of the ICL Pathway
solution have been produced and are regularly reviewed to ensure they meet the
changing requirements of the service continuity framework.

The Business Continuity Framework document does the following:

* Provides a definition of the Business Continuity Framework and contingency

plans as specified in Requirement 830

Provides a detailed definition of ICL Pathway deliverables associated with
business continuity and the methods of review and assurance

Defines the contents and format of the contingency plans

Defines the overall test strategy adopted for testing of the contingency plans

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 27 of 86

F/106.1/27
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Defines the management processes for the management of Major Business
Continuity Incidents

There are contingency plans for all the service elements of the ICL Pathway
solution. Most plans cover service elements but a few cover individual ICL
Pathway sites, which provide more than one service to the Horizon service.

Each contingency plan provides a summarised description of the service or
services within its scope. It also describes the measures already taken to minimise
the risk of not being able to provide those services.

The contingency plan then sets out what actions the relevant service managers
need to take to instigate any recovery or contingency procedures specific to the
provision of the service or services.

Each business contingency plan defines the initial and on-going test strategies. For
each test, a test script has been produced which clearly explains the objectives of
the test exercise and all details necessary to ensure that those objectives are
achieved.

The document Business Continuity Test Plan (CS/PLA/O11) brings together the
testing requirements of all the contingency plans that have been generated and
documents the schedule and methodology to be adopted for business continuity
testing, both before National Rollout and on an ongoing basis.

3.9.4 Supplier management

3.9.4.1 Overview
The Service Managers within the availability team perform supplier
management. The suppliers involved are ISD (Network management,
Operations and support), Sequent/IBM (mainframe systems) and Energis
(Network provision). Suppliers and service performance is monitored and
reviewed on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.

3.9.4.2 Daily
Regular telephone contact between the Service Managers and suppliers is
undertaken. This contact is used to manage issues and incidents that arise on a
sometimes, daily basis. The service managers utilise managem ent information
from incidents and trends to support this regular contact.

3.9.4.3 Weekly
The service (and supplier) performance is reviewed at a weekly meeting
(names “prayers”). This weekly review looks at the issues and problems
arising from the operation of services throughout the week identifying issues
and placing actions on suppliers to address those issues.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 28 of 86

F/106.1/28
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.9.4.4

Monthly

Supplier performance is reviewed formally on a monthly basis, each supplier
provides a monthly management report containing the supplier view of service
availability, service exceptions, trends analysis and performance statistics.
Additionally, ICL Pathway produce monthly MIS statistics giving a view from
an incident and problem perspective.

A monthly meeting, chaired by the Operations Services Manager, is held with
all suppliers present to review overall and individual supplier performance.

3.10 Operational Support Services

3.10.1

3.10.2

Operational Services provide key administrative support to Pathway in order
to service the requirements of its client more effectively.

Key areas of functionality are in: -

Problem Management

It is the responsibility of the Operational Services team to maintain the
Problem Management Database. Problem Managers within CS raise calls
on PinICL. These calls are transferred onto the Problem Management
database. The database is updated daily and is accessible by PON via the
RAS intranet and to Pathway via the CS intranet. A copy of the report can
be found on V:/01public/A CS problem management report.

Operational Services liase with POL to maintain continuity of cross-domain
problems. (POL sends Pathway a cross-domain report, each week, which
is cross-checked with Pathway’s own problem management database).

Change Proposal

Change Proposals (CP) are a means of cascading and obtaining approval
of changes to the Pathway Programme. A meeting is held every week with
representatives of all sections of Pathway to discuss CP's (PCCB).
Change Management (CM) owns this process. CS has their own process
to ensuring one voice of agreement from CS is passed onto the
programme.

Operational Services are responsible for collating all CS impacts on a
database and informing CM and therefore Pathway of their outcome.
Change proposals are held within a library on PVCS, the tool for recording
an audit trail of documents and change proposals for the Pathway
programme.

Specific functions include: -

*

Use the CP Access Database to record all CS impacts.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 29 of 86

F/106.1/29
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

* Chasing actions that arise from meeting of the Pathway
Change Control Board.

* Update CP status changes.

* Manage Customer change Notes, Customer Change
Requests

* Relay costing of impacts to the Finance department.

* Manage the life cycle of the CP process on behalf of
Pathway Customer and suppliers/contractors like ISD.

3.10.3 Non Polling

Operational Services play an important part in managing all Non Polling
incidents of outlets in the Pathway programme. Non Polling impacts
services in the outlets and can attract a penalty if left unattended.

A report is produced from the TIVOLI web of all outlets that have not polled
overnight. Operational Services updates this report with additional outlet
information and cascades this to POL, SMC, Pathway and Energis. This
triggers off the investigative process (amongst the above-mentioned
teams) for non-polling until every incident is resolved. Operational Services
analyses and investigates non-polling incidents on a daily basis and
prepares updated reports, which are distributed, to POL, SMC and
Energis. Relevant reports produced are - 1. Initial Non Polling report 2.
Non Polling analysis and 3.Non polling updates.

3.10.4 Duty Management

As part of Pathway’s contractual commitment to the customer, CS has an
obligation to service customer requirements 24 hours/365 days.
Operational Services organise and distribute rotas of Service Managers on
duty. Time sheets of duty managers are checked and validated and
passed to Payroll.

3.10.5 Operational Change Requests

For any operational system changes authorised electronic signatures have
to be received from Security, SSC, Duty Managers, Development etc.
Operational Services manage the approval aspect of this process by
cascading the authorised electronic signatures between all the relevant
parties and returning the completed electronic authorisation to ISD for
action.

3.10.6 Security

All Pathway staff visiting a Post Office outlet are required to have a valid
security pass issued by POL. Operational Services process the
documentation for security clearance and manage the process of

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 30 of 86

F/106.1/30
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

requesting and issuing of temporary and 3 year passes between ICL
security and POL security.

3.10.7 General Activities

Activity Driver Frequency
Adhoc printing from PVCS andIMI As required
PinICL for CS Staff
General PiniICL and PVCS/MI As required
raining
aintaining Pathway Telephong MI As required
Directory

3.11 Reference Data Management

The overall objective of this team is to manage, in conjunction with other units
in ICL Pathway, all aspects of POL supplied Reference Data and associated
ICL Pathway Reference Data delivery to the live environment.

The Reference Data Team (RDT) is responsible for the management of Reference
Data to support Operational Business Change (OBC) .

The RDT is responsible for the control of product reference data, as follows:

* POL product changes, such as the price of stamps

ICL Pathway generated changed to support POL changes

Other ICL Pathway generated changes, such as the menu hierarchy
* AP Client and services changes

The end-to-end process is described in Process for Operational Business Change -
Product (CS/PRD/030)

The RDT is also responsible for control of outlet reference data changes in support of
the service delivered by the OBC team

3.11.1 Change types

The reference data changes that are covered by this process fall into two types:
basic and advanced.

(Change type Description

[Basic [Basic changes are those that ICL Pathway can implement without}
prior notice. They consist of changes to reference data that can beI
implemented with no more than the basic control and releaseI
lactivity by ICL Pathway. The data that forms the content of these}

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 31 of 86

F/106.1/31
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

hanges is referred to as ‘Class 1” data.

Advanced {Advanced changes are those which need additional activity by ICL
[Pathway before the change can be implemented for example,
pdating the Menu Hierarchy with a new button. Different]
ladvanced changes require different activities by ICL Pathway. The
lactivities may be:

te

Load Type B data (see below for definition of Type B data)

he

Create Type C data (see below for definition of Type C data)
* Manage additional information (see below for definition of additional
information)

Validate the change

Maintain documentation

Formal authorisation

3.11.2 Types of data
[Data type Pescription

[Type A data ata that is sent electronically from the POL RDS system to theI

CL Pathway RDMC system, over an agreed interface, as defined
lin the AIS document (application interface specification) see]
Application Interface Specification Reference Data to ICL Pathway)
‘BP/AFS/007)

[Type Bdata [Data that is sent from POL to ICL Pathway, but not over the}
interface from the RDS to the RDMC. For various reasons, thisI
data has not been included in the Type A AIS, although the}
intention is that it becomes Type A data in the future for example,
cales tariffs. Type B data is received either via the gatewayI
between POL and ICL Pathway or as an electronic file by email orI
lon floppy disc, will be passed as an electronic file for example, over
email or via a floppy disc

[Type C data [Data that ICL Pathway must create to support requested change:
to the Horizon system for example, changing Menu Hierarchy,
cash account and other report layouts. POL must explain what}
result is expected for ICL Pathway to implement the change, forI
example, for a new core product, where the new button should go}
jin the menu hierarchy

\Additional Several changes require additional information or ‘objects’. AdditionalI
information —jinformation may be needed as follows:

* To allow ICL Pathway to create Type C data, for example

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 32 of 86

F/106.1/32
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

the position of a new button

* Because objects such as tokens are needed for ICL Pathway

to complete the testing phase

3.11.3 Activities
The following activities are involved in implementing Reference Data changes:

1. Receiving Type A data - Basic change data

2. Receiving Business Change Request

3. Receiving Type A — Advanced change

4. Receiving Type B data

5. Receiving additional data

6. Monitoring progress

7. Requesting and loading Type B and C data

8. Validating and Verifying Reference Data changes
9. Receiving authorisation

10. Releasing change

The activities performed depend on the type of change and are defined in the
RDCC (CS/IFS/001).

3.11.4 Product change activities

RDT carry out the following activities to implement product changes:

3.11.4.1 Receiving Type A (and B) data-Basic change Basic changes require only
simple reference data changes and can typically be implemented quickly and
easily. The document Receiving Type A Reference Data (CS/PRO/074)
describes the procedure for the RDT to receive and process Type A Reference
data.

3.11.4.2 Receiving a Business Change Request The document Receiving Business
Change Requests (CS/PRO/075) describes the procedure for the RDT to
process Business Change Requests from POL BSM.

Again Assessing the impact of a change request (CS/PRO/077) describes the
procedure for the RDT to assess the impact of a Business Change Request and
to create a plan for implementing the change

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 33 of 86

F/106.1/33
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.11.13 Receiving Type A data-Advanced change. Advanced changes require ICL
Pathway Customer Service to undertake additional activities, such as creating
Type C data, and take longer to implement. For Advanced changes, POCL
submit a Business Change Request to Customer Service.

3.11.14 Receiving Type B data. As described in Receiving Type A data

3.11.15 Receiving Additional Information
Some changes require additional information or objects from POL, such as
position of new buttons.

3.11.1.6 Monitoring progress
The RDT monitor progress on BCRs using a number of tools including the
RDMC workstation

3.11.1.7 Requesting and loading Type B and C data. The document Requesting,
managing and loading Type B and C Reference Data (CS/PRO/078) describes
the procedure for the RDT to create a request for Counter Development to
create Type B and C Reference Data, and to load the data when received from
Counter Development on to the RDMC database

3.11.1.8 Validating and Verifying Reference Data changes
For product changes the data is validated internally. POL BSM received
verification Reports and in most cases they are able to view the change on
dummy counters in Farnborough. POL BSM verify the data and authorise it
for release to Live.
For outlet changes verification reports are produced and sent to the Network
Change Authoriser (NCA) of the territory the change is concerned with. The
NCA authorises the release of the data by returning an OBC24 form.

3.11.1.9 The service description for the APS Token Verification Service is described in
APS Token Verification Service Description for Release 2 (CS/FSP/016).
The RDT validate APS Client data changes provided by POL by carrying out
the activities described in the document AP Token Verification procedure
(CS/PRO/079)
In the event that validation of verification fails, additional data is supplied by
POL or ICL Pathway, as necessary, and the process is repeated

3.11.1.10 Authorisation
POL BSM Authorise changes to reference data associated with BCRs.

3.11.11 Releasing change
Once Reference Data has been authorised by POL BSM, it is released to live
by the RDT. This procedure is described in Releasing Reference Data to the
Live Environment (CS/PRO/081)

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 34 of 86

F/106.1/34
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.12 Outlet Business Change (Dave Law)

3.13 Field Service Management (Reg Barton)

3.14 Service Management (Dave Law)

3.15 Problem Management

3.15.1

Purpose

Problem Management exists within the Infrastructure Services function. The aim
of problem management is to identify and manage the removal of the root causes
of issues that cause incidents to be raised from within the ICL Pathway estate.

A problem is an underlying cause that may or may have already resulted in
incidents and potentially exists when a defect in the specification, design,
production, implementation, or use of any of the service components results in
any aspect of the service not meeting expectations.

A problem will be raised when the impact of the defect is substantial enough to
warrant action to eradicate it. The problem will be closed when it has been agreed
that the underlying cause has been fixed or removed.

Source of Problems

Problems arise from various sources within the Horizon operational e state and can
be identified by customer representatives, Field Service Managers or ICL Pathway
staff managing and supporting the day-to-day operations of the Horizon estate.

POL identifies issues based upon feedback from within a number of their
operational units. POL raise the potential problem via the ICL Pathway daytime
Duty Manager.

The units managing the day-to-day operations and support of the horizon estate
escalate potential problems to the duty manager. The duty manager will decide if
the issue in hand is to be treated as an incident, a problem or a major business
continuity incident. This is usually decided based on the operational impact,
severity and visibility of the issue.

The Field Service Managers (FSM) interface on a daily basis with the outlets and
identify “problem” outlets from various sources such as trend analysis of incidents
raised, feedback from outlets and POL. The FSM will arrange visits to outlets to
interview the outlet staff and ascertain the scope of the issues within the outlet.
Many of these issues are resolved within the FSM processes but those not

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 35 of 86

F/106.1/35
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

resolved may require elevation to problem level. On such occasions these
problems may be entered directly to the problem management database.
Resources

Problem management within ICLP is resourced from the various operating and
service management units within Customer Service. Problems are allocated to
individual problem managers depending on areas of knowledge and expertise,
areas of responsibility and availability. The service mana gers who operate as duty
managers in Infrastructure Services carry out this allocation

In addition there is a senior problem manager with normal problem management
responsibilities plus specific tasks such as problem management skills
development, mentor to service managers, monitoring problem updates etc.

There is a problem management database, which provides the basis for the
recording and management of problems controlled by a database administrator

A database administrator has responsibility for general maintenance of the
database, ensuring that problem managers submit updates, production of reports
and ensuring that information on the database is available to POL.

Role of the Problem Manager

The role of the Problem Manager is to co-ordinate the resolution of a problem and
act as a single point of contact for everyone involved with the problem.
Essentially this is a management function.

The actions carried out to achieve the required outcome are: -
* Investigate and establish the facts

Understand and evaluate all the information available.

Define the problem

Articulate and record the problem and success criteria

Assess the impact and urgency

Establish the impact of the problem on the customer and ICL

Establish responsibilities

Identify the solution owner, agree actions, resources and contingencies.
Monitor and report on progress

Continually review/update reports on plans, actions and timescales.
Escalate where necessary

Escalate to Divisional or Corporate Alert when necessary.

Evaluate success and close the problem

Agree the successful conclusion and close the problem.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 36 of 86

F/106.1/36
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.15.5

Key External Interfaces

As well as the ongoing day-to-day interfaces with other departments internal to
ICL Pathway, there are a number of external organisations that are crucial to the
problem management function.

POCL

Both ICLP as the supplier and POCL as the customer have responsibilities for
the delivery of a problem management service. It is crucial to the success of
this service that ICLP and POCL work together in all aspects of problem
management.

It is inevitable that there are occasions during problem investigation where it
is not clear in whose area of responsibility a problem lies. It is essential that a
clear understanding exists as to how information and knowledge will be
shared on these occasions.

There is an agreement that sets out this working relationship between ICLP
and POCL for the problem management interface between POCL (BSM) and
ICLP Customer Service. (Ref. CS/IFS/008). This defines the interaction
required between POCL and ICLP when cross boundary problems are raised
and reviewed.

The document defines: -

i. the individual and joint responsibilities of each party

ii. problem notification between POCL and ICLP and between
ICLP and POCL

iii, problem acceptance

iv. problem control and status

v. review processes

vi. escalation

vii. potential MBCI’s

viii. agreed priority levels

ISD

As a key service supplier for ICLP to the Horizon outlets ISD has a crucial
role to play in the resolution of problems.

There is an agreement that sets out this working relationship between ICLP
and ISD for the problem management interface between ISD Service
Management and ICLP Customer Service. (Ref. CS/IFS/009). This defines the

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 37 of 86

F/106.1/37
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

interaction required to identify, raise and manage problems across the two
divisions.
The document defines: -

* the individual and joint responsibilities of each party

*

problem types

* problem control and status

* review process

3.15.5.3 Other
There is, on occasions, a requirement for ICLP to interface with other third
party suppliers either directly or via POCL or ISD in relation to Problem
Management. These third parties are contracted to ICLP, POCL or ISD and
the interface is by the appropriate route and subject to the terms of the
contract.
Examples are Energis, BT, Escher, Tivoli, Cap Gemini etc.

3.15.6 Review Processes

3.15.6.1 Cross-Domain Problem Management Forum
The cross domain problem management forum is held monthly prior to the
Horizon Service Review Forum (HSRF) and is intended to highlight and
discuss any problems that are cause for concern and may be discussed at the
HSRF.
Either party can identify specific problems to be included in the agenda and
also deals with process issues and progressing outstanding actions.

3.15.6.2 Post Implementation Review Meeting (PIR)
A PIR is carried out if the Problem Manager on either side is unhappy with the
way a problem is resolved or managed. The PIR reviews the way the problem
was handled and looks to highlight the areas that did not operate well and
require improvement, either within the operation of the process or the process
itself.
The output of the PIR is to initiate improvement actions to ensure that the
process is operated as it should be or ultimately improved.
Any action points arising from a PIR will become agenda items at the Gross
Domain Problem Management Review Forum.

3.15.7 Documentation

The following documents are specific to the function of Problem Management: -
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 38 of 86

F/106.1/38
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

CS/PRD/021 ICL Pathway Problem Management Process.
CS/PRO/063 ICL Pathway Customer Service Problem Management
Procedure.
CS/PRO/110 ICL Pathway Customer Service:
Problem Management Database Procedures.

CS/IFS/008 ICL Pathway/POCL Interface Agreement for the Problem
Management Interface.

CS/IFS/009 ICL Pathway/ISD Interface Agreement for the Problem
Management Interface.

CS/PRD/093 ICL Pathway Divisional Alert Process

The following documents are associated with the function of Problem Management: -

CS/QMS/001 CS Policy Manual.
CS/QMS/002_ CS Process Manual.

3.16 New Service Introductions

The purpose of the CS Service Introduction Team is to support ICL Pathway
Customer Service in the introduction of new facilities and changes to the existing ICL
Pathway solution. The prime functional units are:

Change management

Responsible for the management of Change Proposals within
Customer Service. Responsible for the scheduling of changes to the
ICL Pathway Live estate.

* Service Introduction
Responsible for ensuring that Customer Service is prepared for new
services being introduced to the ICL Pathway solution.

Major release Implementation
Responsible for the organisation and successful completion of
major upgrades to the live estate.

* Release Management (RM)
Responsible for the release of software changes to the live estate.
* Release budget Management

Responsible for providing an estimation of costs for running a live
service including the new service.

Responsible for providing an estimation of costs for the
implementation of software changes and the subsequent actuals.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 39 of 86

F/106.1/39
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.1 Change Management

This section of the document describes the role that the Service Introduction Team
plays in Change management.

The aim of the unit is to ensure that all changes to the estate are managed in a
controlled way through Customer Service.

More specifically the unit has responsibilities to:

Manage CPs through Customer Service

*

Schedule changes to the live estate via the RATS forum

Liaise with the rest of ICL Pathway on any potential changes forecast

*

Interface with the ISD Operational change process

3.16.2 Manage CPs through Customer Service

The unit is responsible to the programme for all changes from a Customer Service
viewpoint by gaining an impact view from all units within CS and reviewing those
impacts on a weekly basis. Ensuring that CPs submitted by CS staff meet the
required criteria and are targeted at the correct release date

3.16.3 Change timetable

Weekly CS change review meetings are held and are attended by management
representatives from Infrastructure Services, Operations and Service Introduction.
The objective of these meetings is to review the latest position regarding CPs on
the PCCB agenda and ensure that all impacts and actions are completed. No
minutes are produced for these meetings.

The output from these meetings is reported at the weekly Project Change Control
Board.
3.16.4 Change management administration

The operations support team is responsible for the following processes with
change management:

* Registration of change proposals (CP) from within ICL Pathway that require
impacting by Customer Service staff or/and their suppliers.

The collation and filtration of all impact statements and the response to
Change Management with the impacts in a timely manner.

Reception of supplier change proposals (SCP) for impact within ICL Pathway
Tracking of approved CP action through to implementation or completion

Management of actions arising from CP impacting and approval processes

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 40 of 86

F/106.1/40
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.5

Production of change management MIS reports specific to Customer Service
and its suppliers

All CPs or SCPs raised within Customer Service are managed by the operations
support team. The team is the prime interface between Customer Service and its
suppliers into the ICL Pathway change management system. All CPs or SCPs are
recorded onto the CP database and managed through its lifecycle from a Customer
Service viewpoint.

CPs are issued daily at various priorities and the team identifies who within CS or
its suppliers needs to provide an impact statement. The impact statements are
chased and then collated into a CS response, these are provided to CM for review
by the PCCB.

Schedule changes via RATS

The RATS forum is a regular meeting held between the Service Introduction
Team; Operations and Support and various other parts of ICL Pathway, including
representatives from Development Directorate.

The aim of the forum is to ensure that all changes to the live estate, outside of a
major release, are scheduled and hence implemented in a controlled manner.
Where possible changes are grouped together to minimise the number of changes
on the live estate and to obtain efficiencies in testing.

The following items are considered during scheduling:

Business impact and hence urgency of the change

* Dependencies on the change

Grouping with other changes

Implications for testing

CPs that are targeted at an interim ICL Pathway release are also discussed at the
forum. The aim of the forum is to identify a potential time when the CP can be
implemented to live and agree or otherwise that the CP can go ahead at the targeted
release. For the scheduling of CPs, and agreement that a CP can be implemented
during a specific interim release the following items are considered:

*

All impacts supplied on the CP

* Potential delivery dates of software changes from Development

* Additional hardware procurement
Business impact and hence urgency of the change
Dependencies on the change

Grouping with other changes

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 41 of 86

F/106.1/41
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

Implications for testing

Once the scheduling of a CP has been considered an impact from RATS is entered on
PVCS.

The Release Management Team performs the administration of the RATS
forum. This activity includes:

the selection of CPs for discussion

bringing forward all other items for scheduling

*

updating the CPs with the result of the forum

* updating the other relevant control system with relevant details

3.16.6 Potential changes

The unit has a responsibility to liaise with the other ICL Pathway units regarding
potential changes that are under discussion for implementation.

This is to ensure that any planning is realistic in terms of implementation on the
live estate.

3.16.7 Operational change

An operational change process (OCP) is also in operation. This process covers
changes required to the live operation and provides an audit trail for all changes
made to the operational estate that are made outside of the Release Management
process. The OCP service is managed and run by ISD on a daily basis. The
Service Introduction Team is responsible for the management processes within CS
for this service and any service developments.

The SSC has access to the live system, which can be used to correct data on the
system when this has been corrupted in some way. The procedure for doing this is
controlled via an OCR and the process is documented in (DN- Add ref here)

The SSC ensures that the relevant control systems are kept current and
administration activities required by managers within Customer Service are met.

3.16.8 Service Introduction

This section of the document describes the role that the Service Introduction Team
plays when a new service is required of the operational system.

When a new service is required to become part of the live operational service
there are a number of activities that need to be undertaken with Customer Service
to ensure the implementation is smooth and complete. These activities are co-
ordinated by the Service Introduction Team.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 42 of 86

F/106.1/42
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.9 Major activities

The major activities involved in the area:

*

Ensure all of Customer Service and its suppliers are aware of the new
service requirement

Liaise with the main ICL Pathway project manager for implementation of
the new service to ensure Customer Service concerns and requirements are
met

Ensure the various units with Customer Service and its suppliers are aware
of any requirements on them from the new service

Ensure the various units with Customer Service and its suppliers are ready
to meet any additional requirements on them from the new service

Produce and agree a service introduction plan

Collate revised costings for running the new operational services

3.16.10 Major Release Implementation

This section of the document describes the role that the Service Introduction Team
plays in the implementation of a major new release.

When the ICL Pathway programme plans a major new release it is the
responsibility of the Service Introduction Team to manage the implementation of
that release to the live estate. This involves a number of activities that are not
necessarily all done by the same individual:

*

*

*

Agreeing the implementation dates

Liaising with PON

Production of implementation plan

Production of Release notes and strategy documents
Accepting handovers from PTU and TDA

Organising the actual upgrade slots and their manning

Post upgrade activities

3.16.11 Implementation dates

The actual implementation dates for a major release are documented at the high
level on the Programme Plan.

The Customer Service implementation plan and Level 3 plan should ensure the
dates on the Programme plan are correct.

The dates and timings of the upgrade are agreed with POL; ISD; SMC; MSS and
Development Directorate.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 43 of 86

F/106.1/43
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.12

3.16.13

3.16.14

3.16.15

3.16.16

3.16.17

3.16.17.1

3.16.17.2

Any conflict in dates with other activities is resolved between the various parties.
Conflicts should be easily identifiable on the CS Management plan.

Liaison with POL

There are numerous levels of communication with POL relating to any specific
major release implementation. These are detailed below:

Release migration strategy

This document is produced by SIT and is based on the migration
strategy produced by the TDA. It should be approved by the manager
of CS and be agreed with the customer prior to the upgrade. There is
normally one version for the counter and one for the data centre if
this is appropriate.

Release Note

This document is produced by SIT and is based on the Release note
provided by PTU. It should be approved by the manager of CS.

Post upgrade report

This document is produced by SIT and is based on the experience of
the upgrade and the first two weeks running following the upgrade.
The manager of CS should approve it. There is normally one version
for the counter and one for the data centre if this is appropriate.

Support Notice

This document is produced by SIT and is based on the arrangements
for the upgrade. It should be approved by the manager of SIT.

Release authorisation

Release authorisation can take one of two formats depending on the
size of the release.

Small releases

For small releases no formal criteria is defined. POL sign off the
release to live via an email based on the contents of the Release
Note; migration strategy and discussions regarding the status of
the release.

Large releases

For large release formal release authorisation criteria are agreed
and reviewed on a regular basis prior to the upgrade. These
criteria work on a traffic light system and criteria can be set
against ICL Pathway and other POL suppliers e.g. OpTIP.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 44 of 86

F/106.1/44
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.18

3.16.19

3.16.20

Status reviews

Regular meetings are held with POL to review the status of all the
planned upgrades.

Implementation plan

An implementation plan is produced by SIT to cover all activities required to
complete the upgrade.

The plan itself covers all activities, both pre and post upgrade, to ensure that all
requirements are met and all dependencies are recognised.

The plan is based on the migration strategy that is produced by Development
Directorate. The plan is reviewed on a regular basis with all parties taking part, or
interested in the upgrade.

Documentation

Most of the documentation produced has been covered in the adjoining sections.
A few additional documents are covered here. These are for internal ICL Pathway
use only.

3.16.21 Support Notice
This document is produced by SIT and is based on the arrangements
for the upgrade. It should be approved by the manager of SIT and
covers all internal contacts.
3.16.22 Authorisation criteria
Release authorisation can take one of two formats depending on the
size of the release. This criteria controls the handover from
Development Directorate to Customer Service.
3.16.22.1 Small releases
For small releases no formal criteria is defined.
3.16.22.2 Large releases
For large release formal release authorisation criteria are agreed
and reviewed on a regular basis prior to the upgrade.
3.16.23 Handovers from PTU and TDA
A number of formal handovers are required from other parts of ICL Pathway into
Customer Service before the release will be authorised for live usage.
3.16.24 Release Note
A Release note is provided by PTU to documents the contents and
outstanding issues with the release.
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 45 of 86

F/106.1/45
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.25

3.16.26

3.16.27

3.16.28

3.16.29

Sign off
A sign off form is received from PTU to confirm that the release is
tested and ready for release to the live estate.

A separate sign off may be provided for the counter and data-centre
part of any upgrade.

Migration strategy

Development Directorate provides a migration strategy. It provides
details on the method to be used for migrating the live estate.

Actual upgrade

The major activities involved in the upgrade are split between the data centre and
counter. The activities are very dependent on the content of the actual release. The
order for release is documented in the Release Note provided by Development
Directorate.

Post upgrade activities

A number of activities are often left until the main part of the data centre upgrade
is complete. The activities are very dependent on the content of the actual release.
The order for release is documented in the Release Note provided by
Development Directorate.

Release Management

This section describes the operations performed by Customer Service Release
Management team. The CS Release Manager (CSRM) is responsible for
authorising changes to the live Horizon environment.

The following procedures are described:

Deciding whether a software fix should be developed

* Defining the release plan and time scales

* Managing the delivery of supporting services
Creating the software fix

Re-raising a release note

Authorising the software fix

Completing the release process

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 46 of 86

F/106.1/46
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.30 Deciding whether a software fix should be developed

This section describes how ICL Pathway CS decides if a fix should be
implemented for a problem.

1. ICL Pathway CS holds a Release Management Forum weekly to
decide what fixes should be created and to assess the impact of any
associated risk. Representatives of each unit involved in the software
release process should attend the RMF meeting as follows:

* System Support Centre
* ICL Pathway Development
* Operational Test Team
* Configuration Management

Customer Service

ICL Outsourcing
* Other units as required

The SSC represents the customer in the RMF in terms of the calls
made to the helpdesks. The Service Managers know of other problems
that are significant to the customer, through parallel escalation
processes. The Service Managers feed their knowledge into the RMF
through the CSRM

2. The CSRM sends a list of all outstanding open calls to each member in
advance of the RMF meeting, allowing the attendees to identify their
requirements.

The calls are cleared calls, that is, have a corrective action in place and
are awaiting closure, either because the decision has not been made
whether to create a fix, or the decision has been made to create a fix
and it has not been completed

3. Each attendee brings with them information about the dependencies,
priorities, risks, issues, alternative options and time scales for the open
PinICLs. It may not be possible to estimate how long certain activities
will take until the priorities have been agreed, therefore, some
information may not be available until after the RMF meeting

4. The open calls are discussed, with the information provided by the
members. For example, details of any workaround and business
impact, until the situation is understood. Then the RMF decides
whether a release is required

5. If SSC consider a problem too urgent to wait for the weekly RMF
meeting, it requests the CSRM to fast track the fix.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 47 of 86

F/106.1/47
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

The CSRM assesses the situation and, based on the priorities of each
unit, the risk of releasing the fix, the alternative options, any
dependencies between fixes and any other issues, decides either the
problem can wait until the weekly RMF meeting or agrees to a fast
track solution.

If the fix is fast tracked, the CSRM holds a virtual forum by taking the
release request to each RMF member (in person or by phone, fax or
PinICL) for input and sign off. The activities in the high level plan are
reduced to a minimum before the release and the rest of the activities,
for example, documentation, are carried out after the release has been
made.

In an emergency, the following people can authorise a fix to be produced
without contacting the CS Release Manager:

* SSC Manager

CS Operations Manager
* Problem Manager

If this happens, the person authorising the fix ensures that the CS Release
Manager is informed so that the release process can incorporate the fix.

Where an emergency fix has been applied to get systems up and running,
release management processes may be applied retrospectively

6. Ifthe RMF decides not to develop and release a fix, one of the
following actions takes place:

(a)The RMF decides that a live problem can wait until the next major
software release. In this case, the CSRM clones the call on the new
release and returns the call on PinICL to EDSC.

(b) If the original is not a live fault it is up-versioned and returned to
Gen Dev.

(c) The RMF identifies the call as not being a problem at all, that is, the
perceived shortfall is the way the system was designed to work.
RMF returns the call to the originator so they can raise a change
request for an enhancement to the system

(d) If rejection is considered to have significant impact to the customer,
the CSRM escalates the problem to Strategic Services before
authorising closure of the call

Note: Fourth line support PinICLs include problems that are not in the current live
environment. These are not relevant to the release management process and are
managed by development. However, if a fourth line support PinICL identifies a
problem in the current release, the RMF decides whether or not to postpone the
fix.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 48 of 86

F/106.1/48
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.16.31 Defi

Once the decision has been made to create a fix; the following issues may need to

ning the release plan and time scales

be taken into account.

1.

2

Any dependencies between calls

. Any situations where a new release will run in parallel to an old
release before the old release is upgraded.

. The priority of each fix according the different needs of each CS
unit.

CSRM updates the report for POCL, for which they are currently
responsible, with the expected completion date to resolve the call

. For most releases, the delivery date is not significant. The release
is simply distributed at the earliest convenient time. For releases
that have a significant date line, the following steps are taken:

Each unit involved in the release provides details of the time
scales in which they can complete the required work

*

All parties involved agree to a high-level plan for each release
The CSR\M is responsible for determining the availability of the

Operational Test Rig. and co-ordinating the allocation of users to it.

. The CSRM:
(a) Creates a software fix release note

(b) Captures all the information and raises a release PinICL for
each release.

The Release PinlCL references all the PinICL calls (or HSH / SMC
calls) that it covers and each original PinICL call is updated with the
new Release PinICL number. Progress queries on the original
PinICL calls are found by reference to the software fix release note
attached to the new Release PinICL

(c) Attaches the release note to the PinICL and sends it to PIT

. The manager for each unit updates the release PinICL with details
of their progress

. The CSRM monitors the progress of the software fix release note by
accessing the release PinICL and manages any deviations from the

high-level plan to ensure that all units are aware of the delay and
the impact can be minimised. The CSRM does this by negotiation

with the different units in the release process both in and outside of

the RMF.
If necessary, the CSRM escalates problems to Service

Management

Notes:

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 49 of 86

F/106.1/49
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

1. The CSRM owns the plan

2. Arelease PinlCL is a different kind of PinICL to those used
by SSC so that it is not counted in problem statistics

3.16.32 Managing the delivery of supporting services

3.16.33

3.16.34

3.16.35

Other units may be involved in the release process who are not part of the normal
RMF, for example, training, helpdesks, documentation, bench-marking, hardware
installation. In most cases fixes will not affect these units, but, if any of these units
are involved, the CSRM co-ordinates their activities, identifying any testing
requirements and receiving notification from the units when their preparation are
complete, as follows:

*

*

For HSH and SMC: notification of operational readiness

For documentation: notification of completion of update, and the
documentation itself, so that CSRM can distribute it

For hardware: notification of operational readiness.

For user training: notification that the training material is ready,
trials of the material are scheduled on the Operational Test Rig,
training is delivered where necessary

Provided that all the supporting preparation is complete, CSRM sign off
the release note.

Note that the time taken for the distribution of the documentation has to be
taken into account in the delivery schedule of the release.

Most fixes do not normally affect any of these other units.

Creating the software fix

Fourth line support creates the fix and the Tivoli installation scripts, and unit tests
and documents the fix. Any fixes that fail testing must be recreated.

ICL Pathway development complete the release note with details, such as the
affected estate, and send it via PinICL to Configuration Management. If external
fourth line support are involved, ICL Pathway development manage them and
complete the release note on their behalf.

Re-raising a release note

A software fix could fail in LST or it could be applied in the wrong way. When a
failed fix is investigated and the content of the release is found to be at fault, then
one or more new work-packages are developed. CSRM withdraw the original
software fix release note and raise a new one to cover the new work-package(s).

Authorising the software fix

The CSRM authorises the software fix release, having:

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: SO of 86

F/106.1/50
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

1. Ensured that all testing and preparation is complete
2. All sign offs have been attained.

3.16.36 Completing the release process

1. Either ISD/SMC or ISD Service Management distributes software.
After the software has been distributed, CSRM receive notification of
the success or otherwise of the release:

*

If ISD/SMC or ISD Service Management confirm the successful
release of the software, CSRM receive the release PinICL from
CM. If the delivery was only to the pilot estate, which may be the
case for high risk fixes, CSRM authorise the full delivery to go
ahead

If the distributing unit report problems with the distributed software,
CSRM may authorise the regression of the release. (Regression
means withdrawing the software fix that had been installed)

2. Provided that the release is successful, CSRM sign off the release
note as complete. CSRM then close the release PinICL.

3.16.37 Work Instructions

A set of work instructions complement the processes above. They are held on the
Customer Service V drive with an index at v:ReleaseMgt\CSRM Working
Documents\DocPlan_Index_1

3.16.38 Software Distribution Service Review

A review is held on a monthly basis with the unit providing the software
distribution service.

3.16.39 Release budget management

This section of the document describes the costs that are maintained by the
Service Introduction Team.

Costs associated with service introduction are collected in several places:

1. When the ICL Pathway programme is discussing new business opportunity it
is the responsibility of the Service Introduction Team to manage the
estimation of the costs associated with:

implementation

subsequent live running of the new service.

other CS involvement e.g. SLA measurement changes

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: Slof 86

F/106.1/51
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

a. When the ICL Pathway programme plans a major new release it is the
responsibility of the Service Introduction Team to manage the costs associated
with the implementation of that release to the live estate. Estimates are made
prior to the implementation and actuals are produced after the event.

b. When the ICL Pathway programme plans a new service it is the responsibility
of the Service Introduction Team to manage the estimation of the costs
associated with the live running of the new service.

c. When an interim counter fix is applied to the live estate in isolation (i.e. with
no other fixes going at the same time) the actual ISDN line charges are found
out and recorded.

3.17 Management Support

3.17.1 Business Support
3.17.11 EPOSS and APS reconciliation
Reconciliation incidents may arise for a number of different reasons. In
most cases there is a mismatch between the information held in
different parts of the ICL Pathway system. The task of the Business
Support (BS) section is to investigate and financially resolve
reconciliation incidents. If a similar reconciliation incident occurs a
number of times, the BS team identifies it as a problem incident to be
managed through the problem management process.
Possible incidents that may occur are:
* Unmatched transaction reversals
* Transaction rejection by TIP
* Incidents raised by clients
* Incidents raised by customers
* EPOSS counter reconciliation report errors
* APS reconciliation reports
The Business Support Analyst investigates Business Incidents.
3.17.1.2 Daily APS and EPOSS reconciliation report retrieval and checking
Following the implementation of release CSR+, the full set of APS and
EPOSS reconciliation reports are delivered automatically to the
appropriate folder held on the MIS Client PC situated within MSU.
These reports are available daily before 08.00hrs. In the event that a
system problem prevents this automatic process from being completed,
both APS and EPOSS reports will be extracted from central systems by
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 52 0f 86

F/106.1/52
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

CS / SSC and delivered to CS /MSU daily via e mail to be available
before 08.00hrs.

The Business Support Analyst will retrieve and analyse the reports
daily. If any errors are present on the reports, these will be
investigated and any incidents and queries will be identified and
reported to POL.

3.17.1.3 Investigating reconciliation incidents

This section describes the general procedure that the BS follow to
investigate all types of reconciliation incidents. The BS:

1. If an error has been identified, the Business Support Analyst
will raise and log a call. This call will provide a unique
reference number. This log will also provide a PinICL, which
will detail the error on the report.

2. Business Support Analyst will raise a Business Incident
Management Service Report (BIMS) including details of the
rejected transaction. Where applicable a Manual Error
Report (MER) is issued.

3. SSC are notified of the error via the PinICL and they will
investigate the reason for the transaction rejection/error by
checking the transaction details for invalid or corrupted fields.

4. SSC provide the BS team with the correct details using the
PinICL and entering the findings onto BIMS.

5. This BIMS report is issued to POL on a daily basis at the end
of the business day.

3.17.1.4 Dealing with recurring reconciliation incidents

This section describes the procedure to deal with recurring
reconciliation incidents.

This procedure is jointly carried out by the BS Team and the Customer
Service Problem Manager (CSPM). The CS Problem Manager
investigates the incident after the Management Support Unit has dealt
with the financial reconciliation.

The procedure is as follows:

1. If the same or similar reconciliation incident occurs more than once,
the BS team reports it as a problem incident to the Customer
Service Problem Manager (CSPM) by sending an email requesting
investigation of the incident.

The email contains details of the type of incident and the PinICL
reference number. In addition, the BS team passes hard copies of
all similar incidents to the CSPM.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 53 of 86

F/106.1/53
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

2. The CSPM progresses the incident investigation after the BS team
has carried out financial reconciliation. The BS team requests a
response time from the CSPM of less than two weeks.

3. The CSPM sends a progress report detailing the findings of the
investigation to the MSU on an agreed date.

4. On receiving the progress report, the MSU updates the existing
System Incident Log (SIL).

5. If POCL or the Horizon System Service Manager (HSSM) request
further investigation of the problem incident, the MSU issues an
updated System Incident Log (SIL) report to POCL and HSSM for
information.

Invoicing: If a MER is issued to supply details of missing or erroneous
transactions, Pathway are liable for an agreed charge. MSU manager
and POCL agree on a monthly basis the level of this charge based
upon the number of MER’s issued. If agreement cannot be reached
between the two parties, a Case Law referral form is completed by the
MSU manager and passed to Pathway Commercial for discussion and
agreement with the POCL counterpart. The subsequent decision is
then used as a precedent for similar incidents, which may occur.

3.17.15 Dealing with reconciliation enquiries

Enquiries resulting from POL being unable to complete a reconciliation
of the ICL Pathway reports to their internal totals are referred to the
Horizon System Helpdesk.

The Helpdesk logs the call and provides a call reference number. If the
query is resolved during this initial call, the Helpdesk closes the call.

If the Helpdesk is unable to resolve the query, it passes the call to the
ICL Pathway BSU reconciliation team who take over ownership of the
call and communicate directly with POCL to resolve it.

The reconciliation team logs all the calls that they receive requiring
investigation as reconciliation queries and maintains a full audit trail.
3.17.1.6 Archiving the reports

Customer Service hold electronic copies of all reconciliation reports for
seven years and are able to provide copies of any reconciliation report
or file on request within this period.

3.17.1.7 Monitoring and Managing Customer Satisfaction

The MCVP process is being reviewed while ICL Pathway work with the
POCL to decide how they wish to progress this activity.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 54 of 86

F/106.1/54
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.17.1.8

3.17.1.9

3.17.1.10

MCVP

To monitor the users’ perception of ICL Pathway’s post-implementation
services, the Management Support Unit manages the Management
Care Visit Program (MCVP) - a monitoring program implemented to
ensure ICL Pathway fully understands the Post Masters view of our
service. The MCVP involves senior ICL Pathway representatives
visiting selected post offices and collecting feedback using a predefined
interview pack. It is expected around 500 outlets per annum will be
visited.

Training

Before the interviewers have any contact with the post offices, the
Management Support Unit-Business Support Manager will:

1. Explain the purpose and the goals of the MCVP.

2. Go through the interview procedure and questionnaire in detail.
3. Present all other relevant documentation.
4

. Answer any questions and addresses any concerns raised by the
interviewers.

All interviewers will be briefed to inform them that each interview must
follow a standard procedure so that the results can be fairly compared
and a true analysis obtained

Preparations and documentation

The interviewers will be sent electronic copies of relevant
documentation, plus hard copy interview packs containing all relevant
reference documentation. The interviewers maintain the interview packs
as necessary and take them to interviews. The interview pack contains:

*

Procedure document (including the Interviewers Summary
Guide)

*

Phone script

*

Sample forms

*

Other documents that the questionnaire refers to

Questionnaire

*

List of post offices to contact

The interviewer will then arrange interviews at the Post Office Outlets
allocated to them, attend and conduct the interview and complete the
MCVP report.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: S55 of 86

F/106.1/55
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.17.1.11

3.17.1.12

3.17.2

Service Visit Records

In addition to the MCVP the Management Support Unit also runs the
Service Visit Reply card process, which is used to monitor the service
performance achieved by ICL engineers who visit outlets to conduct
remedial or change activity.

Through this process Post Masters are able to comment on the quality
of the service provided by an engineer during his visit, including any
related contact to the Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH).

Routine monthly analysis

The Business Support Unit carries out an initial analysis of the returned
cards and pick out any issues needing immediate action. Having done
this, the cards are then passed to the Management Support Unit for
monthly analysis and formal reporting purposes. Generally reports
cover:

The percentage of feedback cards returned compared with total
visits made. ICL System Service provide the number of total visits
made.

The percentage of positive and negative responses by question.

Comments on key areas of satisfaction or dissatisfaction.

Service Performance

The efficient provision of information to the customer, ICL Pathway and
ICL / Fujitsu staff about the performance of the ICL Pathway system is a
key part of the Service Performance component of the ICL Pathway
solution. This activity is managed by MSU in ICL Pathway Customer
Service, with emphasis placed on the following specific areas:

*

The monitoring of service performance (in accordance with Service
Level Agreements, where applicable), raising and in some cases
resolving any issues arising there from

The support of the activities of the CS organisation and the broader
Pathway ICL organisation through the provision of management
information(Ml) on both a regular and ad-hoc basis

To support Post Office counters Ltd (POCL) through the provision of
information on an ad hoc basis

In practical terms, this is achieved by means of a number of clearly
identifiable data extraction, processing and reporting activities that can
be categorised according to the nature of the requirement, i.e. what
they are driven by:

Legislative obligations

* Contractual obligations

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 56 of 86

F/106.1/56
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate

Commercial in Confidence

POL00401505

POL00401505

Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Date: 22/11/01

* Good business practice

* Issue management and investigation

For the most part, these activities are periodic (daily, weekly monthly or
quarterly) but some are event driven. The following table identifies the
specific deliverables according to frequency and associated activities that help

monitor service performance:

Activity Driver Frequency

Service Performance Report MI leekly
Service Review Book (Contract Monthly / Quarterly

ital Statistics Report MI [Monthly
Business Incident Management Report (Contract Monthly
SLA Remedial Calculations (Contract (Quarterly
Ad Hoc Query (Customer As Req
(Outlet Data Maintenance MI Daily
IPowerhelp Data Extraction iM Daily
IHSH Performance Reporting Ml Daily
INon polled Outlet Reporting MI Daily

G Pilot Rollout Programme Monthly Report {Customer Monthly

G Daily Call Statistics MI Daily

‘G Weekly Call Extraction MI leekly

G Weekly Transaction Extraction MI leekly
IBenchmarking (Contract Monthly
IOBCS Volumes & Values MI Monthly
Daily Call Volumes Ml Daily
Slow Running Report (AHQ 317) Ml leekly
IPDA Transaction Volume (Report 202) Ml Monthly
AP Monthly Transaction Volume (Report 344) Ml Monthly

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd

Commercial in Confidence

Page: 57 of 86

F/106.1/57
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

IData Extraction and Maintenance Ml/Customer _[Daily/Weekly or as
* Non Polling Outlets required

’ Restarts

* All Calls

Field Service Manager's Weekly Report MI leekly

Field Service Manager's Monthly Report MI Monthly

3.17.2.1 Producing and scheduling MIS reports

3.17.2.2

The Service Performance team produces MIS reports that measure
and monitor system and business performance. This is done on a
regular or adhoc basis, as can be evidenced in the table above.

Ad hoc report queries

This section describes how MSU deals with ad hoc report queries in a
controlled manner to provide a response within five working days.
Requests for ad hoc reports come from a single point of contact within
POCL Service Management, or internally from departments within ICL
Pathway

The procedure is completed by one of the MSU Information Analysts as
follows:

1. When MSU receives an ad hoc report query, (via the Ad Hoc Query
Mailbox) on an Ad Hoc Query Request Form, the analyst updates
the Ad Hoc Query Database with details of the request and issues
an immediate confirmation of receipt by return of e-mail. The
Analyst will also estimate the length of time the report will take to
produce or advise if the information cannot be supplied.

2. The Ad Hoc Query Database enables MSU to control the requests
that it receives. If an ad hoc report is requested on a regular basis
the Analyst asks the requestor to confirm the frequency with which
the report is required and if the expectation is that the report is to
continue, MSU will request the originator to raise the appropriate
Change Request documentation.

3. Ifthe Analyst estimates that the ad hoc report will take longer than 5
days to complete, agreement with the requestor is sought for an
extension to the timescale. This is confirmed by e-mail via the Ad
Hoc Query Mailbox.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 58 of 86

F/106.1/58
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505

POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.17.2.3

3.17.2.4

4. When the report has been run and the results sent to the requestor,
or if the requestor cancelled the request, the Analyst will close the
request and file details of the report within the Ad Hoc Query
Database

Service Review Book

The Service Review Book (SRB) is a monthly document that reports on
service performance for the previous calendar month. It is issued to
Post Office Networks (POL) and ICL Pathway Management.

The SRB has two issues, a data only version - to be issued on the fifth
working day of each month, via e-mail, and a data & comments version -
to be issued on the tenth working day of each month, via e-mail.

Each end of POL quarter (Feb, May, Aug, Nov), as well as producing
the data for that month, quarterly data is also produced.

This report identifies key areas within the Horizon solution and
analyses volumetrics and service performance information, in line with
the Contract.

The MSU Information Analysts complete the report.

1. Obtain Transaction volumetrics from the Data Warehouse using the
Business Objects reporting tool for the applicable transaction
streams requiring analysis. Obtain Help Desk call details and
volumetrics from the Powerhelp system or local databases using
either the Business Objects reporting tool or Access queries. Obtain
System Service calls from local database. Obtain Training
information from Strategic Services Team. Obtain Business
Incidents from Business Support Team.

2. Analyse the information retrieved according to the requirements of
the report.

3. Present the data in the agreed manner — either in tabular or
graphical format.

4. Alert respective departments within ICL Pathway of any adverse
performance noted.

5. Pass the completed report sections to the Intranet Administrator to
place into the Customer Service Intranet site.

6. Issue email copies of the report to the Management Team and POL
Management.
Weekly Service Performance Report Production

MSU publishes a Weekly Service Performance Report for the ICL
Pathway Management Team and others (on a need to know basis.)
This report contains data one week in arrears to enable the data to be

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 59 of 86

F/106.1/59
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

collected from the outlets. Wherever possible though, an up to date
position is reflected within this report. A reporting week is from Sunday
to Saturday.

This report identifies key areas within the Horizon solution and
analyses volumetrics and service performance information.

The MSU Information Analysts complete the report.

1. Obtain Transaction volumetrics from the Data Warehouse using the
Business Objects reporting tool for the applicable transaction
streams requiring analysis. Obtain Help Desk call details and
volumetrics from the Powerhelp system or local databases using
either the Business Objects reporting tool or Access queries.

2. Analyse the information retrieved according to the requirements of
the report — these
are ongoing and can change week on week.

3. Present the data in the agreed manner - either in tabular or
graphical format. Include a
written analysis of any trends and observations.

4. Alert respective departments within ICL Pathway of any adverse
performance noted. This should be completed via the PinICL
system.

5. Pass the completed report sections to the Intranet Administrator to
place into the Customer Service Intranet site.

6. Issue hard copies of the report to the Management Team or others
as requested.

3.17.2.5 Service Level Agreements

The following sections describe how MSU monitors and maintains
Service Level Agreements for all ICL Pathway contracts that are under
formal change control

3.17.2.6 Maintaining Service Level Agreements

ICL Pathway stores and maintains service performance measures and
related data within a software application called the Service Level
Contract Administrator (SLCA). MSU maintains all parameters that
relate to the service levels on the SLCA via File Controller access.

MSU uses the SLCA to:

Raise a CP for a change of service performance measure agreed
between customer, ICL Pathway and associated supplier

* Change parameter values via the Maintain performance measure
facility in the SLCA

* Change the effective ‘from date’ for all changes made

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 60 of 86

F/106.1/60
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

* Log changes using the audit module within the SLCA application
giving cross-references to the changes

* Check that the electronic changes are reflected within the
commercial contracts of the Customer, ICL Pathway and associated
supplier

MSU uses the SLCA for manual update to:

* Enter details from source data in the format and structure defined in
the contract standing data application

* Validate data before input and after input before commit
* Log changes using the audit module within the SLCA
Retain all source data used as input for audit purposes

Input manual performance measures source data in the required
time-frame for the period under review

3.17.2.7 Monitoring Service Level Agreements

ICL Pathway has responsibilities to demonstrate to its customer that it:

* Monitors service delivery in all areas where performance measure
criteria exist

* Applies service management at all levels with alerts raised where
service falls below expectation

SLA conformance information is obtained from the Data Warehouse,
MSU developed databases and information supplied from the Pathway
suppliers. Following is a list of data gathered or generated by System
Performance:

* HSH Telephony: Conformance information calculated by ISD and
delivered to MSU daily

* HSH Call to Resolution: Call details obtained by ISD and delivered
to MSU daily where conformance is calculated

* System Service: Call details obtained by ISD, amendments to call
duration are calculated by ISD and supplied to MSU on a daily basis
where conformance is calculated

* Data File Delivery: For all Data File Delivery SLAs, MSU run queries
against the Data Warehouse. These are:
* APS/OBCS/TPS/ APS Client
* APS Ref Data / OBCS Stops / Ref Data

* LFS

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 61 of 86

F/106.1/61
POL00401505

POL00401505
ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2
Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01
3.17.2.8 Business volumetrics

The ICL Pathway programme is significantly affected by the level and
variance of business volumetrics. The baseline for volumetrics is the
reference source of the Workload Brief, subsequently updated and
maintained as the Workload Compendium. This is a customer-owned
document from which the Service Performance Unit generates
enhanced supporting business volumetrics on behalf of ICL Pathway.

The outputs from this impact analysis are the prime source of data for
planning and sizing activities carried out by the ICL Pathway
development teams and by ICL Pathway's suppliers.

When a new version of the Workload Compendium is issued, the
Service Performance Unit carries out an impact analysis on any
changed areas. If the level of change in any area is greater than 5%,
the Service Performance Unit notifies the ICL Pathway Director,
Finance and Commercial to enable contractual variance analysis to be
carried out and provides associated impact analysis data.

Supplementary impact can arise from changes to supplier-related
volumetrics as described in the following sections. They are dealt with
and processed in the same manner as changes to the Workload
Compendium.

After carrying out the impact analysis of any changes, the Service
Performance Unit updates the ICL Pathway Business Volumetrics
portfolio. This portfolio is the means by which business volumetric
changes are communicated to ICL Pathway.

Implementing business volumetrics processing is described in
associated work procedures and instructions held by the Service
Performance Unit.

3.17.2.9 Horizon System Helpdesk volumetrics

The Service Performance Unit maintains Horizon System Helpdesk
(HSH) call volumetrics. The HSH volumetrics model provides data
about HSH call volumetrics during the whole life of the ICL Pathway
system. In particular, it produces daily and monthly analyses.

The outputs from the model are a main source of data for planning and
commercial use by the HSH supplier as well as for sizing activities by
the ICL Pathway development teams.

The key input parameters that contribute to re-appraisal of the HSH call
volumetrics model and result in a new issue of the model are changes
to:

Workload Compendium
* Horizon plan

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 62 of 86

F/106.1/62
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

* ICL Pathway commercial model
* System MTBF parameters

Less significant changes that result in reappraisal of the HSH call
volumetrics model and result in an update to the current model are:

* Minor adjustment in roll-out programme profile

* Correction to key commercial ratios

* Minor update to ICL Pathway commercial model
* Minor changes in Workload Compendium

* Minor changes in Horizon plan

In addition to the above, MSU and the HSH Manager hold a quarterly
review of the key ratios relating to inappropriate calls handled by the
HSH. Where they agree, they adjust the key ratios accordingly and
release a new version of the current HSH model.

Before releasing a new version of the model, either within ICL Pathway
or externally, the Service Performance Unit ensures that the Director,
Customer Service, validates the model and the Director, Finance and
Commercial, authorises it. ICL Outsourcing receives a copy of each
variant of the HSH call volumetrics model output.

MSU updates the ICL Pathway Business Volumetrics portfolio with
details about changes to the HSH model. This portfolio is the means by
which business volumetrics changes are communicated throughout ICL
Pathway.

Implementing HSH call volumetrics processing is described in
associated work procedures and instructions held by MSU.

Ad hoc analysis volumetrics:

MSU deals with ad hoc analysis volumetrics as they arise. It obtains
source data either from the existing volumetrics models or by specific
enquiry to the ICL Pathway Service Performance Data Warehouse by
access to a Business Objects Universe.

MSU only accepts requests for ad hoc data volumetrics from sources
who are authorised to have access to the data. Requestors must make
requests to MSU on an Ad Hoc Query Request Form. The Service
Performance Unit supplies the form to the requestor either
electronically or as a hard copy.

MSU reviews requests for ad hoc volumetrics and, if it finds them
acceptable, gives the requestor an estimate of:

Delivery time

Format of results

* Constraints that limit the resolution of the query
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 63 of 86

F/106.1/63
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.17.2.10

3.

4

* Limits to be applied

If it is unable to progress the query, MSU gives:

* Reasons for not progressing the query or for delay
* Costs that may need to be met

* Limitations of use of any data to be provided

MSU aims to provide a response to all queries within a time frame
commensurate with business need and cost in an effective and
professional manner.

Implementing ad hoc volumetrics query processing is described in
associated work procedures and instructions held by MSU.
Field Service Manager Statistics

MSU provides weekly and monthly statistics to a team of Field Service
Managers. This team is responsible for the proactive identification and
management of system problems that affect individual Post Office
outlets. The idea is to minimise the impact of problems on Post Office
outlet business and to restore service levels and customer satisfaction.

The weekly FSM report can be divided into the following categories: -

Record of outlets with the highest incidents of Environmental (E),
Hardware (H), Complaint (M), Network (N), Operational (O) and
Software (S) related calls on a national and regional basis.

. Details of all the above calls

. Frequency of calls by FAD code that conform to the above criteria over
a 13 week period.

. Details of calls filtered by key words
The monthly FSM report include:-

Monthly record of outlets with the highest incidents of Environmental
(E), Hardware (H), Complaint (M), Network (N), Operational (O) and
Software (S) related calls on a national and regional basis.

Frequency of calls by FAD code that conform to the above criteria
over a 13 week period.

Monthly report of top 30 outlets with the highest incidents of ‘restarts’.

. Two-month variance analysis of calls per outlet.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 64 of 86

F/106.1/64
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.17.2.11

3.17.3

CS intranet site

The CS Infrastructure Services unit provides and maintains an intranet
site for use by ICL Pathway Customer Service and senior ICL Pathway
management. The site address is currently:

http://pwayweb01/csintranet
The site is based on a Windows NT Personal Web Server; the

documents are created using MS FrontPage.

Currently, the site provides the following facilities and information:
* Management information reports

* ICL Pathway CS organisation and contact information

* Noticeboard

CS procedures and operations manuals

Site search

The CS intranet site administrator is responsible for maintaining and
developing the site. This includes the following tasks:

* Updating and archiving reports

Managing usernames and password access to report pages

Updating organisational information. Note that staff are expected to
update their own personal and contact details

* Ensuring that procedures and operations manuals on the site are
updated to reflect the latest versions of documents in the ICL
Pathway library

IT Infrastructure

The CS Infrastructure Services Unit is responsible for ordering all Office
Desktop equipment for ICL Pathway. The process involves a number of
people and departments within and outside ICL Pathway:

* The originator of the request for IT equipment

* The CS Infrastructure Services IT administrator who manages the
ordering process

* The ICL Pathway Accounts Department which raises the purchase
order and pays the invoice

* The supplier who supplies the goods or service
The following description of the process is divided into three sections:
1. Raising an order

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 65 of 86

F/106.1/65
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

2. Processing an order

3. Receiving the goods

3.17.3.1 Raising an order

To raise an order:

1.

The individual originating the order identifies the requirement and
technical specifications of the equipment.

For standard desktop equipment, for example, PCs and printers, CS
Infrastructure Services are able to advise on what to purchase and
the suppliers to use so a detailed technical specification need not
accompany such requests. For non-standard orders, for example,
specific software or servers, it is the responsibility of the originator
to determine the specifications and technical requirements

The originator checks with CS Infrastructure Services to see if the
proposed supplier is already registered on the ordering system.

If there is a known supplier, the originator checks with the CS IT
department to find out if they have the supplier's information. For a
new supplier, the originator provides the suppliers bank details and
a copy of the suppliers company letterhead showing the VAT
number with the purchase request

Having established the specification and technical requirements the
originator completes a Purchase Order Request Form (PORF).
Refer to Local Procedure when raising a purchase order
(CS/PRO/105) when raising the order

The originator takes the completed PORF to his or her department
manager for approval.

The originator sends the completed PORF to the IT administrator in
the CS Infrastructure Services Unit together with any quotations
they have obtained and any Change Proposals they have raised.

3.17.3.2 Processing an order
To process an order after the originator has completed the PORF:

1.

The IT administrator checks the PORF and decides whether the
order is a standard, blanket, or call off order. See Purchasing
Goods and Services (PA/PRO/020) for more details. He or she then
assigns a reference number to the order.

The IT administrator checks that the correct cost centre code has
been used and obtains authorisation of the completed PORF from
the manager of the CS Infrastructure Services Unit.

If an order is rejected, the IT administrator informs the originator of
the reason for the rejection

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 66 of 86

F/106.1/66
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3. The IT administrator enters the order details on to the Oracle
Database and passes the PORF to the Accounts Department for
the purchase order to be raised. The Accounts Department creates
the purchase order, adding supplier account codes and giving the
purchase order a unique number.

4. The Accounts Department returns a hard copy of the purchase
order to the CS IT department within 24 hours of receiving the
PORF.

5. The IT administrator attaches a copy of the purchase order to the
rest of the order information and enters the details of the order onto
a spreadsheet for reference purposes, such as monthly analysis.

6. The IT administrator faxes the purchase order to the supplier
together with an order Acknowledgement Form.

7. The supplier faxes the Acknowledgement Form back to ICL
Pathway to acknowledge receipt of the order and advise ICL
Pathway of the expected delivery date.

8. The IT administrator emails the originator with the expected delivery
date so that the originator can arrange to accept the delivery when it
arrives

3.17.3.3 Receiving the delivery
To receive the delivery:

1. When the goods are delivered to ICL Pathway, the IT administrator
is contacted and informs the originators asking them to collect and
sign for the goods.

Note: CS Infrastructure Services do not store deliveries. Once they
have advised the originator of a delivery, the originator must make
arrangements to collect the goods.

If the goods are delivered off-site, the supplier sends a copy of the
delivery note to the CS IT administrator. An appropriate person on-
site checks and signs for the goods and informs the CS IT
administrator of any problems.

2. The IT administrator files a copy of the delivery note with the rest of
the order documentation.

3. The supplier sends the invoice directly to the ICL Pathway Accounts
Department. The Accounts Department checks the invoice against
the original purchase order. When they are satisfied that the invoice
matches the purchase order, they send the invoice to the originator.

4. The originator checks the invoice against the delivered goods to
confirm that they also match and, if so, returns the invoice to the
Accounts Department for payment.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 67 of 86

F/106.1/67
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18 Security Management

3.18.1 Overview

The purpose of the CS Security Unit is to protect ICL Pathway’s investment in IT
assets, and to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all information
conveyed, processed or stored, by the services it provides. It supports ICL Pathway in
all operational security matters to maintain ICL Pathway’s legal and contractual
obligations.

The function of the Unit is organised in three work categories as shown in the
following diagram. Diagram has been removed.

CS Security Unit

[ T

Policy Compliance and Security I Administration
Vulnerability Operation

3.18.2 Policy Compliance and Vulnerability

This considers two main requirements, both of which are considered of equal
importance from a security perspective.

a) It is the policy of ICL Pathway Limited to protect its investment in IT
assets, and to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of all
information conveyed, processed or stored, by its services. These are set
out in relevant security related sections of the Codified Agreement.

b) ICL Pathway must remain fully compliant with relevant UK legislation,
UK and European regulations and ICL Group IT Security policies and
continue to meet the security obligation placed on it under contract. It is
therefore essential to track and anticipate emerging UK and European
regulations that could affect ICL Pathway’s operation and ensure that an
ongoing programme of compliance and audit review is maintained in order
to respond appropriately to any changes in risk.

Activities in this area are supported by compliance with and maintenance
of, various security-related CCDs, policies and security audit reports.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 68 of 86

F/106.1/68
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.3. Security Operations

This comprises those activities that support day to day operational security
requirements. These are discrete activities that are carried out in order for ICL
Pathway to meet its specific security functional activities under contract.

Activities in these areas are supported by specific process / procedural
documentation and manuals.

3.18.4 Administration and Organisation

This comprises those activities that support the way in which the Security Unit
conducts its work and how it interfaces with other parts of ICL Pathway, the
Customer and other 3“ party contacts and suppliers.

The Unit’s structure consists of the Pathway Security Manager (PSM) with direct
reports consisting of Security Functional Managers and Security Analysts. The
PSM reports directly to the Director of Customer Services.

3.18.5 Policy Compliance and Vulnerability
3.18.6 Security Policy

3.18.7. Primary Security Policy

Primary security policy is embodied in the ICL Pathway Security Policy
(RS/POL/002). This document is consistent with the requirements of the ISO
Code of Practice for Information Security Standards (ISO17799) and draws its
authority from Schedule AO2 of the Codified Agreement. RS/POL/002 is a CCD
and is included in the CCD list (SUP/CON/001).

The Security Policy is applicable throughout ICL Pathway and identifies specific
roles and responsibilities for Security within the organisation. It is subdivided into
high-level policy statements that are commensurate with the key controls of
18017799 and in line with ICL Group IT Security Policy.

Specific security enforcing policy is contained in the Security Functional
Specification (RS/FSP/001). This document is also a CCD and is supported by
various security-related Contract Referenced Documents — most notably the
Pathway Access Control Policy (RS/POL/003).

Other relevant policies include Customer initiated and owned security
documentation with which ICL Pathway must comply but which POL is
responsible for maintaining. The Unit’s primary interface with the Customer is via
the POL IT Security Conformance Manager.

3.18.8 Maintain extant policy.

All policy has to be maintained in order to comply wi th legal, contractual and best-
practice obligations. The activities necessary to support this requirement are
reflected in the annual CS Security activity plan and the security policy

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 69 of 86

F/106.1/69
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.9

documentation. It is also mandated by other ICL Pathway Programme Office
documentation.

Document Management.

CS Security maintains its documentation set and undertakes reviews in
accordance with Programme Office / Document Management guidelines
(PA/PRO/010) and via the use of the Programmes PVCS facility (CM/MAN/003),

The primary documentation set is N_A_CS_SECURITY_%. Some relevant
documentation is also contained in the documentation set maintained by the ICL
Pathway Audit Manager.

The ICL Pathway Security Manager is responsible for ensuring compliance with
Programme Office procedures and may delegate responsibility for document
maintenance to the Analyst responsible for the specific area of work in question.

Relevant procedural security documentation is also available on the Business
Management System (BMS) website.

3.18.10 ISO17799 and Group IT Security Policy.

3.18.1

1 Overview

ISO17799 is the British Standard for Information Security Management. It
provides a proven, internationally recognised best-practice framework upon which
to maintain information security within ICL Pathway and has been adopted by
ICL Group Security (GISI) as part of the Group IT Security Policy (CPM21) and
overarching Group Security Policy (CPM20). Compliance with the Standard is
also reflected within the Codified Agreement. .

ISO17799 facilitates development and maintenance of an Information Security
Management System (ISMS) through:
* A Security Policy;

An assessment of security threats, vulnerabilities and risks;

An ongoing programme of compliance.

3.18.12 Application within ICL Pathway

ISO17799 guidelines are reflected for the ICL Pathway environment in
RS/PRO/028, which is available to all staff.

It has been identified that whilst this document provides an accurate reflection of
the requirements of ISO17799, it does not provide the most appropriate way of
communicating these throughout the organisation or for placing the operational
responsibility for ensuring specific compliance with staff Line Managers.

A project has therefore been initiated to implement a revised plan for maintaining
1SO17799 compliance within the organisation.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 70 of 86

F/106.1/70
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.13

3.18.14

3.18.15

Legislation

ICL Pathway is required under Law and within the requirements of contract to
comply with all applicable legislation. Apart from compliance with Common
Law, ICL Pathway has specific obligations is respect of the Data Protection,
Police and Criminal Evidence and Regulation of Investigatory Powers Acts.

CS Security maintain an interface with ICL Group Legal Services and with
Masons (The ICL Pathway Solicitors) to ensure that its input to legal issues and
activities on behalf of ICL Pathway are commensurate with overarching ICL and
contractual obligations. It undertakes this directly or via the Director of
Commercial and Finance or ICL Pathway Commercial Manager.

CS Security also reviews emerging legislative issues by visiting various
Government and Legal web-sites. Its primary interface to the Customer is via the
POL Commercial Manager.

Data Protection Act (DPA)

The Data Protection Act 1998 came into force on the 24.10.01 and deals with the
necessary requirements to ensure that the confidentiality of personal information
is maintained. The Act is based on a number of Data Protection Principles and is
far-reaching in scope.

CS Security ensures that ICL Pathway and its operational systems are in line with
extant DPA legislation. It provides DPA input to existing and new projects as
required and assistance and information to the customer and other ICL Pathway
employees. The Unit considers the likely impacts of the updated legislation on
Horizon and works with the Customer and other interested parties to identify and
address areas of non-conformance within ICL Pathway and the Horizon system.

An important element is ensuring the appropriate level of awareness is introduced
and maintained amongst ICL Pathway staff. This is achieved via various
workshops, seminars and leaflets.

Police and Criminal Evidence Act (PACE)

Compliance with the relevant sections of PACE is relevant in connection with the
investigation support that ICL Pathway provides to POL. This is primarily in
respect of the prosecution of Post Office counter staff who abuse POL rules for
the management of the Horizon system and of benefit claimants who seek to
defraud the OBCS system that is operated via the Horizon Infrastructure. POL
maintains interfaces with relevant investigation staff in the Department for Work
and Pensions.

The Unit’s interface with the Customer is via the Consignia Group Internal Crime
Manager.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 71 of 86

F/106.1/71
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.16

3.18.17
3.18.18

3.18.19

3.18.20

3.18.21

Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA)

RIPA provides regulatory controls for the investigation of suspected criminal
activity. It is relevant in connection with the detection and prosecution of
individuals by POL and in the production of data related evidence from the
Horizon system.

The Unit’s interface with the Customer is via the Consignia Group Internal Crime
Manager.

Penetration Testing

Scope

ICL Pathway is contractually obliged to provide and maintain a secure system that
protects the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the data it processes and
stores.

Periodically ICL Pathway is required to demonstrate that the Horizon system has
adequate protection mechanisms to obviate the possibility of a successful attack
by hacking or denial of service activities. In these instances the ICL PSM will
enlist the help of a reputable external company to undertake penetration tests of
the Horizon infrastructure and produce a report detailing recommendations for
improving security controls.

Testing

Testing is sensitive and is generally undertaken on a test environment that
replicates the live service. The Security Manager works closely with consultants
from the chosen Company and, where appropriate the Customer, to produce
detailed testing scripts. Testing requires support from various Development and
Testing units within ICL Pathway.

Supplier/Product Testing & Assurance

CS Security undertakes periodic risk assessments and reports on 3" Party
suppliers of products and services to the Horizon system. This provides assurance
that the security requirements placed upon ICL Pathway under contract are
adequately reflected in the supplied services

Inputs include service and product specifications. Outputs include security
assessment reports and recommendations for the ICL Pathway Board and/or
Contract Managers

Compliance Projects

Periodically a number of reviews are undertaken by CS Security on a project
management basis to ensure compliance with high-level legal, policy or
contractual obligations. These may be instigated as a result of changes in

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 72 of 86

F/106.1/72
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.22

3.18.23

3.18.24

legislation, ICL Group policy or the contract with the Customer. Resource is
sourced from within the Unit but may require the use of outside consultants. The
implementation of any recommendations is generally effected via CP.

Two such projects are related to IS017799 compliance and DPA compliance.

1SO17799 Compliance

A current review is underway to ensure that IS017799 guidelines are adequately
reflected and enforced within the ICL Pathway environment.

It has been identified that whilst this document provides an accurate reflection of
the requirements of ISO17799, it does not provide the most appropriate way of
communicating these throughout the organisation or for placing the operational
responsibility for ensuring specific compliance with staff Line Managers.

A project has therefore been initiated to implement a revised plan for maintaining
1SO17799 compliance within the organisation. Work has started on preparing the
information security control grid that will facilitate self-assessment schedules for
1SO17790 compliance. The objective of this exercise is to identify and produce a
gap analysis to record all non-compliance throughout the various Pathway
divisions. Implementation of a corrective action programme will then be
progressed across the Pathway organisation through the ISO17799 Workshop
Group as part of IS09001 accreditation work.

CS Security and Pathway Internal Audit are working together on a tool to measure
ICL Pathways compliance to ISO17799.

DPA Compliance

The Data Protection Act 1998 came into force on the 24.10.01. The new Act has
widespread impact across ICL Pathway and the advent of Network Banking
brings with it additional responsibilities for the protection of personal information.

CS Security are undertaking a review to ensure that the legal and contractual basis
upon which ICL Pathway records, processes and stores personal information on
behalf of POL and its Agents is fully agreed and reflected in the Codified
Agreement.

The Unit will consider the likely impact of the updated legislation on Horizon and
progress compliance in conjunction with interested parties. Compliance with the
DPA will be achieved through a combination of input to relevant processes and
procedures and awareness programmes

Security Audits

CS Security undertakes a number of audits in accordance with Security P olicy and
the CS Security annual activity plan. The audits are designed to ensure ongoing
compliance with security policy and operational processes and are often
undertaken in conjunction with Pathway Intemal Audit.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 73 of 86

F/106.1/73
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.25

3.18.26

3.18.27

The Security manager is responsible for undertaking these audits and may
designate or co-opt other ICL Pathway resources as required.

Target areas for the audits are determined by various factors including associated
recommendations from other Pathway Compliance Units, reported security
events, requests from the respective Business Unit Managers or as a result of
changes in the actual or perceived threats to ICL Pathway assets. Security Audits
general involve a site visit and review of relevant physical, IT, personnel and
documentary processes and procedures. They require close liaison with designated
staff in the target business unit and the undertaking of various interviews with
relevant staff.

The scope of the audits varies according to circumstances but the requirements of
1SO17799 and legal/contractual obligations are generally used to form an opinion
of compliance.

The output is a report with recommendations where appropriate. Corrective
actions are documented in a Corrective Action Plan (CAP) which are monitored
until completed by the actionee.

Security Awareness

CS Security has an obligation under contract to provide a programme of ongoing
security awareness for both ICL Pathway and POL/POCL staff. This is designed
to reinforce general security messages consistent with the requirements of
1SO17799 and also to target areas where non-compliance has been reported.

Maintenance of the security awareness programme is the responsibility of a
designated security analyst within CS Security. There is an equal responsibility
placed on line managers within the various Business Units to ensure that security
awareness is fostered in the day-to-day working environment.

Awareness Programme for Pathway

It is essential that all staff working for ICL Pathway receive appropriate security
awareness at the earliest opportunity. New recruits to ICL Pathway receive a
security handout and briefing as part of their induction training.

Security awareness is an ongoing activity and has to be reinforced periodically
with advice and guidance. This is normally based on a theme and supported by the
requirements of ISO17799. The awareness programme documented in
RS/MAN/001 is updated periodically to reflect changes in the prevailing threats.

The Business Management System is used as a mechanism to provide links to
associated security documents in an easily searchable, intuitive manner.

Awareness for Post Office

Post Office personnel are informed and advised of appropriate best security
practices, based on ISOI7799 by newsletter articles. It is important that the format,
style and content are relevant, pragmatic and understandable and the appropriate
training vehicle is discussed with POL.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 74 of 86

F/106.1/74
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.28
3.18.29

3.18.30

Examples are used wherever possible to highlight potential issues and solutions
proposed in a pragmatic and appropriate way.

Change Control
OCP Authorisation

All operational change potentially affecting the security of the live estate requires
appropriate authorisation by the PSM or designated deputy. This includes changes
to security enforcing components or code such as firewall rulebases.

CS Security input to the Operational Change Process used within both CS and
ISD Operations to manage and authorise OCPs. The “CSPathwayCP” mailbox
sends OCPs to the Security Manager and Deputy who consider whether the
change is commensurate with extant security policy and procedures and then
authorise or reject the proposal.

Contingency arrangements are in place with Security ASD in the event that the
PSM or deputy is unavailable.

CSCP Review

CS Security manages formal Change Proposals via the CSCP Review Process.
The security impact of all CPs is considered by the PSM and resultant impacts are
fed back to the “CSPathwayCP” mailbox for action. The Unit also complies with
the Pathway “Change Order” process.

The Unit is also responsible for raising CPs relating to security changes and
support these throughout the change life cycle.

3.18.31 CP Review
CS Security inputs as appropriate to PCCB/CCB deliberations on various CPs that
have a security impact.

3.18.32 Problem Management

3.18.33 PinICL Support
The Unit has access to the PinICL system and has four security-related “stacks” in
respect of both security policy and operational security issues.

3.18.34 CS Problem Process
CS Security provides input as appropriate to the CS Problem Management
Database and provides regular updates on problem resolution.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 75 of 86

F/106.1/75
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.35

Business Risk Assessment

CS Security provide ongoing daily support to security compliance by undertaking risk
assessments of operational processes and procedures used within ICL Pathway in
support of the Horizon system.

All operations and applications have a security element and the Unit receives requests
from Business Units throughout Pathway for security related advice. The Unit
facilitates problem resolution by undertaking discrete assessments to establish the
threats, vulnerabilities and risks associated with emerging issues and uses these to
balance security requirements against the need for operational expedience.

This requires a full understanding of both legal and contractual liabilities. Relevant
staff in all Pathway Business Units are consulted as required.

3.18.36
3.18.37

3.18.38

3.18.39

Security Operations
Security Event Management (SEM)

SEM System

The Tivoli SEM system is used primarily by CS Security to track and report
events of security significance. The Unit has access to a SEM workstation to
which related events are forwarded for monitoring and analysis. A designated
Analyst within CS Security is responsible for the daily monitoring of the system.

Effective Security Event Management relies partly on identifying new features
and vulnerabilities introduced by new systems. Operating system and applications
are reviewed accordingly to optimise security configurations and minimise
security weaknesses. Tivoli Event Filters are configured and updated where
appropriate to trap security related event messages according to their severity.
Events may be recorded and forwarded purely for reassurance that processes are
working properly or conversely to alert CS Security to inappropriate activity for
investigation. Virus incidents are one such type of alert.

Security Incidents & Investigations

Incidents can be categorised as potential and actual. They vary according to
severity and how many systems are affected. Initial analysis will determine the
type of incident, scope and frequency. All incidents are logged and details
recorded for trend analysis and to facilitate a controlled, co-ordinated and timely
response. A disciplined approach is required to ensure that accurate facts are
promptly obtained and reviewed.

Maintaining the integrity and confidentiality and availability of associated data
and information is critical. Evidence may be required for prosecution and/or for
company disciplinary procedures.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 76 of 86

F/106.1/76
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.40

3.18.41

3.18.42

Event Analysis & Reporting

Trend analysis is used to help identify procedural or technical weaknesses and
inform corrective actions.

Outputs from analyses are used specifically to ensure that excessive system access
is minimised and all users operate systems according to the rule of least privilege.
As the understanding of existing systems improves, enhancements to security can
be carefully assessed. Reports are referred to the PSM for action.

Key Management

The Horizon system is required to provide a secure centrally managed facility that
gives end-to-end protection to Post Office business streams. The Horizon system
and its associated business systems use cryptography extensively to protect the
integrity and confidentiality of business data.

Key management encompasses the creation, distribution, protection, installation,
monitoring and periodic replacement of cryptographic material. Cryptographic
material may be either manually or automatically managed within Pathway:

Manual cryptographic keys are the responsibility of the Security Manager who is
the designated Crypto custodian for Pathway;

Automated cryptographic keys are managed by the Key Management System
(KMS) under the control of the Key Manager.

Manual Key Management.

Most cryptographic keys are managed automatically by KMS. Some however are
generated in a secure offline environment, supplied on a floppy disk and then
installed manually on the appropriate platform.

Primary key inputs are provided internally via the Managed Key Service (part of
IPDU Cryptography) or regularly by CESG. The latter undertakes regular audit
reviews of arrangements for the physical protection of key material.

The CS Security Manager is the designated Cryptographic Key Custodian for ICL
Pathway and utilises a small group of designated Key Custodians and Key
Handlers in both ISD and POL to operate the manual key management service.
Primary responsibilities are to:

* manage the manual cryptographic estate

* oversee the secure production of manual keys

* monitor manual key expiry and instigate renewal
control keys for central servers and existing FTMS applications
receive, register and log use of specified manual cryptographic keys

manage enforced key changes that are outside KMS control and ensure a
smooth transition as required

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 77 of 86

F/106.1/77
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

investigate provision of the existing manual key processes within KMS

3.18.42.1 Process and Procedures

Procedures for cryptographic keys are carefully controlled and documented.
Monthly audits of existing key holdings are undertaken and actual or potential
breaches are reported immediately to the Director of CS and the subject of
immediate investigation.

All cryptographic key activities are undertaken in a secure operating
environment to minimise potential for compromise whilst handling removable
media.

3.18.43 KMS Key Management

The KMS automates many key management processes and, from a central point
of control, shields the Pathway business services from the complexities of key
administration. KMS was developed by ICL Pathway to meet contractual
obligations to the Post Office. Its main features are:

* Centralised control and automated key management;

Secure delivery of cryptographic material across the live Pathway estate;
Support for Pathway’s operational cryptographic needs.

The CS Security Key Manager administers the Key Management System. All
activities conducted through the Key Management platforms are in accordance
with the KMS User Guide, RS/MAN/006. The main functions of the role are to:

*

create, certify and distribute the keys installed at the Post Office and campus
platforms to meet planned migration/rollout/re-roll dates

monitor the status of key material proactively and on request

undertake forced key changes as necessary

investigate outstanding deliveries, in particular delays to routine key changes
conduct additional CA Public Key (CAPU) validity checks as necessary
produce management status reports on request

administer Key Management system data changes

check the Key Management task list daily for new actions

record and resolve problems in conjunction with first, second, third and fourth
line support

maintain the KMS User Guide and update as appropriate for planned new
developments

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 78 of 86

F/106.1/78
ICL Pathway Ltd

POL00401505
POL00401505

Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.43.1 Functional Changes
The Key Manager maintains contact with other Pathway Units and keeps
informed about proposed KMS functionality and other changes that affect the
provision of KMS. To this end the Key Manager responsibilities are to:
* keep up to date with Pathway developments such as Network Banking,
Your Guide and EFTPOS
* review existing and emerging documents for the proposed introduction of
new cryptographic features
* keep abreast of KMS developments and issues so as to provide timely
advice to management of any KMS functionality impacts
* be aware of KMS System test results and any impact these might have on
programme delivery timescales
* provide KMS assistance towards the smooth transition to OCMS.
3.18.43.2 KMS Event Logging
The KMS is concerned with two main types of event, Tivoli events and KMA
events. Tivoli events are reports of incidents detected by applications running
on the operational systems; KMA events are used to trigger cryptographic
activities such as distributing keys to an outlet.
The Key Manager is responsible for periodic checking and investigation of
any failures relating to the following automated KMA events and for re-
scheduling them to run again if necessary:
* Preparing and creating client keys for installation prior to Post Office
outlet rollout.
* Activating and distributing keys to a client.
* Permanent or temporary closure of a Post Office outlet.
*  Re-opening of a Post Office outlet.
The KMS Auditor is involved in the investigation of Tivoli events. Tivoli
systems management provides the primary means of managing the Pathway
systems. When an application detects a security problem the local platform
logs an event which Tivoli harvests. Security events are separated out and
forwarded to the Pathway Security Analyst acting in the KMS Auditor role.
In addition, the Key Manager and KMS Auditor perform the following
activities:
* Responding to events forwarded by the SMC
* Examining the Application and System event logs on request.
3.18.43.3 Security Controls
The KMS system is operated in a secure environment to:
* ensure the integrity of all keys on all relevant platforms
* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 79 of 86

F/106.1/79
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.44

3.18.45

3.18.46

3.18.47

3.18.48

interpret audit trail and task-generated output - noting, escalating and
responding to security breaches as appropriate

protect removable media

oversee any hardware or software changes to the CAW or Key Manager
Workstations as arranged

avoid disclosure or loss of any assigned tokens, passwords and safe
combinations

Audit Data Extractions

This section describes an overview of the activities and control used for the
extraction of audit data from the audit servers. This information may be requested
by POL Investigation/Audit personnel to support their regulatory activities or by
ICL Pathway for problem management purposes.

Data Extractions for POL

Data extractions for POL are requested by the Consignia Group Internal Crime
Manager via a Request for Information (RFI) form. The form details the outlet
FAD code and date range for which the data is required and the relevant priority
of the request. A designated analyst in CS Security uses the ICL Pathway Legato
GUL to provide an audit trail of all work carried out on the Audit Servers and to
identify which files are needed to fulfil the relevant RFI. Tivoli is used to identify
the appropriate cluster number, which is then used to check the results from the
GUI. An OCP is raised to enable ISD Network staff based at the datacentres to
identify and load the required tapes. Once all the files have been restored, they are
seal checked and a message store is generated. The requested set of information is
then extracted with the use of Riposte Query and burnt to closed CD

Service Delivery Review

CS Security carries out data extractions in respect of 50 RFIs per year with a
maximum burst rate of 7 per calendar month. This non-formal agreement with
POL is subject to contractual agreement. Future service levels are the subject of
an impending CR. There is no specified time frame in which to complete RFI’s
and priorities are agreed on an ad-hoc basis.

Pathway Data Extractions

ICL Pathway SSC occasionally request audit data to help investigate Horizon
System Issues. These requests have a lower priority than all POL RFI’s and are
actioned as soon as possible. SSC request data extractions by raising a PinICL on
the CS Security “Data Extraction” stack.

CD Preparation & Despatch

All RFIs are burnt to ‘closed’ CD, to ensure the data can not be modified. The
CD is virus- checked with the latest anti-virus software. The data is provided in
both Excel 95 and 98 formats. Also included is a “Read me” word document

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 80 of 86

F/106.1/80
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

explaining what is contained on the CD, which virus scan engine and virus
definition were used to check the CD and who to contact in the event of a query.

CDs may contain sensitive information and are sent special delivery to the POL
requestor or delivered by hand to SSC.

3.18.49 Investigation Support

ICL Pathway has no current contractual obligation to provide prosecution support
to POL. CS Security currently provide this support on a “without prejudice” basis
pending contractual agreement.

3.18.50 Collation of Evidence

Evidence in support of POL internal investigations and in support of POL’s
obligations to the Department for Work and Pensions is collated from a number of
different sources. Transaction data is gathered from the Audit Server. Data in
support of system integrity is sourced from the HSH (Powerhelp calls), MSU (non-
polling) and PinICLs. The latter provides evidence to support the attestation that
the outlet under investigation was operational during the period in question. CS
Security has direct access to the HSH Website.

3.18.51 Preparation of Witness Statements

CS Security currently provides three types of witness statements:

* An overview of the Horizon system and its associated integrity controls;

* An overview of the Horizon system and its associated integrity controls

together with a statement in support of an evidential CD containing data
produced in response to an RFI.

An overview of the Horizon system and its associated integrity controls
together with a statement in support of an evidential CD containing data
produced in response to an RFI and an explanation of the Order Book Control
System.

3.18.52 Legal Requirements

In order to provide admissible evidence CS Security ensures it keeps up to date
with emerging or changing legislation. This information is sourced via appropriate
web-sites or via the Consignia Group Internal Crime Manager as part of the
regular Joint Audit and Security Liaison Meetings

3.18.53 Court Attendance

CS Security provides witnesses to attend Court if required to support statements.
Whilst ICL Pathway has no contractual obligation to do this it does so to avoid
formal subpoena.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 81 of 86

F/106.1/81
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

CS Security personnel provide statements of fact. They are not expert witnesses.
Where expert witness testimony is required other members of ICL Pathway or
ISD Operations may be required.

3.18.54 Virus Management.

3.18.55 Anti-Virus Measures

Maintaining updated Anti-Virus protection on the Live Estate and reporting
potentially infected files preserves the integrity and availability of the data
throughout the Horizon System. Automatic notification and prompt virus incident
response is included in CS/PRD/101 and RS/PRO/043, currently being
incremented for final review and formal baseline.

CS Security manages the implementation of virus checking software on the live
Horizon estate. This involves the initial distribution and ongoing updates of anti-
virus software onto selected workstations and servers within the Pathway Live
Estate.

3.18.56 Software Delivery Processes

Initial delivery is via Tivoli MANLCF and regular monthly updates of the latest
anti-virus definition files utilises a procedure created specifically for delivery of
Common Objects. This procedure requires only one release note to enable the PIT
team to produce a Fast Track baseline, thus eliminating the need for using Work
Packages. Full details are contained in the project [VCS PID (DE/PRD/002) and
details of the delivery procedure are contained in PA/PRO/045.

3.18.57 Event Reporting & Analysis

Virus event reporting is via both manual and automatic notification. These are
outlined in RS/PRO/043.

Manual alerts rely upon the raising of a call, via the HSH Helpdesk, by users of
workstations that receive a virus warning. ISD Operations monitor event logs on
servers and also raise a Helpdesk call.

Automated alerts capture relevant NT events and forward them in real time via
Tivoli to both SMC and CS Security. CS Security analyse details to understand
the threat and to inform corrective actions. Where appropriate the software
Vendor is contacted for advice and guidance.

3.18.58 Review of Virus Threats

CS Security undertakes daily checks of emerging viruses and other malware via
automatic e-mail notification from various Vendors and via the Web. Notification
is also received from ICL Group. These are used to inform threats and determine
the required defensive measures.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 82 of 86

F/106.1/82
POL00401505

POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.59

3.18.60

3.18.61
3.18.62

3.18.63

Horizon Pass Management
(CS Security provide contingency for this activity)

All Pathway staff and Engineers needing access to Post office outlets require a
Horizon Security Identity Pass. This pass provides authorised persons with
suitable identification that can be verified by Post Office Managers via a call to
the Post Office Regional Help line.

The associated procedure is co-ordinated by Pathway in conjunction with POL
and ICL Group Security. The requester completes the necessary forms and the
application is vetted by POL. Once approved ICL Group Security issue the pass to
CS Security, which forwards to the appropriate individual.

Management also involves replacement, temporary, invalidated and cancelled
passes and details are provided twice a week to POL.

Horizon Passes Audit

An audit of all Horizon Security Passes is performed every 6 months to ensure
that CS Security has captured, invalidated and destroyed all Horizon Security
Passes belonging to ex-employees and contractors of ICL Pathway.

Live System Access

Live Access Authorisation

Security policy mandates that all users requiring access to the live system have to
be approved by CS Security. This is a fundamental security access control
requirement.

The procedure involves the completion of an application form, which is
authorised by the individual’s Business Unit Manager. This is forwarded to CS
Security who validates the request and sends to ISD Operations via the ISD
mailbox for activation on the system.

Token Administration

Security policy mandates that all users who access the live system from locations
remote from the datacentres do so via secondary token authentication. ICL
Pathway uses SecurID tokens for this purpose. Tokens provide additional
assurance as to the identity of users.

Tokens are managed by a designated member of CS Security who maintains a
record of receipt, allocation and destruction and undertakes a quarterly review to
ensure the cancellation of tokens that are no longer required. The associated
activation of Tokens on the system is undertaken by ISD Operations.

Tokens are supplied by RSA Security and administered by Aslan.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 83 of 86

F/106.1/83
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.64 Fraud/Security Countermeasures and Investigations

3.18.65 Countermeasures

CS Security keeps up to date with developments in Fraud and Security
countermeasures and uses this to inform risk assessments. The Section subscribes
to various publications and journals and maintains informal contact with like-
minded groups via e-mail and the Web.

3.18.66 Internal Investigations

The Unit undertakes internal investigations into alleged or suspected abuse of
assets by ICL Pathway personnel. Investigations are undertaken in conjunction
with HR, the Director of CS and other senior managers.

3.18.67 Security Administration

3.18.68 Security Board

The ICL Pathway Security Board owns ICL Pathway’s Security Strategy and
determines the adequacy of security policy. The Security Board includes
representatives that are nominated by the Director, Customer Services and
participants including Horizon Security Liaison staff, represent a broad range of
interests to ensure that alternative perspectives are considered. Whenever
necessary, the Security Board can commission independent specialists to
undertake studies, investigations or audits.

The Security Board meets as required.
3.18.69 S4 Forum

The S4 Forum is a group that includes representatives from security-related roles
within ICL Pathway. These include CS Security and ASD Security personnel.
This informal group meets generally on a fortnightly basis to discuss matters of
general security interest and potential future impact.

3.18.70 Joint Audit / Investigation Meetings

The PSM attends the Joint Audit / Investigation meetings that are arranged on a
quarterly basis by the ICL Pathway Audit Manager. Participants include the
Consignia Group Audit Manager and Internal Crime Manager.

The remit of the Group is to discuss and resolve any issues relating to audit and
the provision of audit data in support of investigations.

3.18.71 GISI Liaison

The Unit maintains contact with ICL Group Security to ensure that Group IT
Security Policy is adequately enforced throughout ICL Pathway.

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 84 0f 86

F/106.1/84
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.18.72 Event Management Forum

CS Security is represented on the Event Management Forum, which is organised
by the SMC. This meets monthly and discusses incidents of recurring high-
volume system events with a view to ensuring that KELs are accurately
maintained and event filtering is optimised.

3.18.73 Customer Care Visits

The PSM undertakes Customer Care Visits in accordance with the agreed CS
programme.

3.19 Management Accounting

The CS Management Accountant follows the ICL Pathway processes to establish and
maintain the operating forecast for Customer Service. These processes are defined in
the Processes: Planning and Reporting (PM/PRO/001)

The Management Accountant follows the Month-end forecast procedure
(CS/PRO/106) to update the previous month’s forecast with the following elements:

* The ICL Pathway Project Plan
* New Change Proposals (CPs), with CS costs

* Update from other parts of ICL forecasts, that is, from Infrastructure
Services Division (ISD)

* Actual figures of costs for the month from the Oracle Financials system

* Forecasts from CS Service unit managers, with advice from the
management accountant.

Forecasts from the CS Director
* Head Count (number of staff) from Human Resources

Once the forecast has been reviewed by the ICL Pathway Directors, the final
operating forecast for the month is given to the CS Director, the CS Direct
Reports and ICL Pathway Finance.

Actual costs in Oracle Financials are made up from invoices and financial adjusting
journals made by the CS Management Accountant and ICL Pathway accountants.
The invoices are checked as described in Local Procedure when Receiving Invoices
for Authorising (CS/PRO/103).

When raising a purchase order, in preparation for an invoice, staff are referred to
Local Procedure when Raising a Purchase Order (CS/PRO/105).

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 85 of 86

F/106.1/85
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007

Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

3.20

3.20.1

3.20.2

3.20.3

Management Planning

CS Planning produces three different types of plans, namely:

Major Release Management Plan
* CS time recording plans for "Business as Usual" and chargeable activities

* Release specific Level 4 plans

Major Release Management Plan

The CS Major Release Management Plan is an informational document used to
draw together various levels of plan from several sources to present all the
information in a single document. It contains data from:

The Programme Level 1, 2 & 3 plans
CS Level 4 Release Introduction plans
ISD Scheduled activities document
CS Business Continuity plans.

The Major Release Management Plan is updated with information from these
sources at least monthly and distributed to each CS Manager & Service Manager.

CS Time Recording Plans

Two time recording plans exist within Customer Service; one covers those
activities deemed as 'Business as Usual’ for which no time and materials charges
are made, the second covers those activities resulting from additional business
which is charged to the customer on a time & materials basis.

The Business as Usual plan is fairly static and requires little change except
for occasional organisational moves. The RTR Administrator in Feltham
processes the change requests to this plan.

The additional business plan, known as the CS CCN plan, is more
dynamic, with new business activities being approved every week. Each
new business activity, for which CS have to undertake work, is added to
the plan once it is authorised for work to commence. Resources and
timescales are added as listed in the approved change document. A
weekly interchange between the CS CCN plan and the RTR Time-
Recording system keeps the plan up to date with time booked to each
chargeable activity.

CS Release Specific Level 4 Plans

Level 4 plans are produced for every major activity involving work on the Live
Horizon System. These plans are at detailed timed activity level. A major upgrade

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 86 of 86

F/106.1/86
POL00401505
POL00401505

ICL Pathway Ltd Operations Manual for Customer Service Directorate Ref: CS/QMS/007
Version: 0.2

Commercial in Confidence Date: 22/11/01

may consist of over a thousand such detailed activities and to get to this level of
detail involves many hours of preparatory meetings starting several weeks before
the main event. The major dates are taken from the Programme Level plans but
there is feedback from the level 4 plans up to the Programme Level plans to
ensure that changes resulting from the detailed planning

* 2001 ICL Pathway Ltd Commercial in Confidence Page: 87 of 86

F/106.1/87
