POL00422653
POL00422653

Post ¥
OFFICE

SUBPOSTMASTERS
CONTRACT

D2.1/6/1
POL00422653
POL00422653

Post V
OFFICE

Agency Contract
Amendments
Standard
Subpostmaster

Contract

Communication from Post Office Ltd (04/1 1102)

Specific changes by Contract Type (04/11/02)

Section 23, 1 August 2004, Savings Stamps

Section 21, 1 April 2005,Telephone Facilities

Section 17, 23 Sept 2005, Restrictions

Section 12A, 31 July 2006, Safeguarding of the Mail
Section 15, 31 July 2006, Assistants

Section 16, 31 July 2006, Divulgence of Official Information

ooo oO oO oO CO

Standard 04.07.06

2.1/6/2
POL00422653
POL00422653

Changes to Agents’ Contracts. All Subpostmasters Contract,
Community Subpostmasters Contract and Modified Subpostmasters
Contract branches

As a consequence of the recent change of business name, from Post Office
Counters Ltd to Post Office Limited, some of the references in the standard
Subpostmasters Contract, Community Subpostmasters Contract and Modified

Subpostmasters Contract no longer apply. The following tables list the
changes, which have been made to the various documents.

This communication should be retained with your contract for services for
future reference. Similarly the associated Appendices 1,2 and 3 should be
retained as they replace the appendices found in Section 16 of the
Subpostmasters, Section 12(M) of the Modified, and Section 12 of the

Community Contracts respectively.

Please note that neither the fundamental relationship, nor any of the
substantial terms and conditions of the documents are affected by this change

of company name.

Should you have any questions about these changes please write to me at

the address below.

Paul Williams

Agency Contracts Analyst
Post Office Limited
Lyceum Building

1 Bold Street
LIVERPOOL

L14HQ

GENERAL CHANGES - throughout whole of each contract

- “Post Office Counters Ltd/POCL”

— “Post Office Counters”

-  “afanother/other [sub] Post Office(s)”
— “post office business”

— “Post Office
funds/money/cash/property/papers/
documents/stock”

- “Post Office Counters Ltd funds/money/cash/
property/papers/ documents/stock”

4/11/2002

“Post Office Limited”

“Post Office”

“alanother/other Post Office branch(es)”
“Post Office business”

“Post Office Limited
funds/money/cash/property/ papers/
documents/stock”

“Post Office Limited
funds/money/cash/property/ papers/
documents/stock”

VER RRR BPR RRR RRR RR RPP RPP ee ests se

2.1/6/3_
POL00422653
POL00422653

Spe ific changes by contract type and sectiun

Subpostmasters I Modified Community Amendments
Contract ref. Subpostmasters I Subpostmasters
Contract ref. Contract ref.
Section 2, para. 22 I Not applicable Not applicable Words “...submitted via the Regional General Manager to Post Office Counters Business
Section 2(a), para. Headquarters...” should be changed to: “...submitted to Post Office Ltd...”
18:
Section 4, para. 11 I Section 5 (M), Section 3, para8 I Reference to “the Post Office” and “Post Office” should be to “Royal Mail Group plc”
and Section 8, para 14: and section 4
para. 14: para 14:
Section 10, para. Section 4(M) para I Section6, para 4 Words: “employees of Post Office Counters Ltd” should read “employees of Royal Mail Group pic”
4: 4: and words “Post Office Staff Superannuation Scheme” should read: “ any of Royal Mail's
occupational pension schemes”
Section 11, para. Section 8(M), Section 7, para Reference to “Post Office Group Treasury” should read “Royal Mail Group Treasury”.
5.1: para 5.1 5.1
Section 11, para. Section 8(M), Section7, para6 I Details of Post Office Counters Ltd Agent should be changed to the following:
6: para 6

“Post Office Ltd Agent, (Group Treasury), Rowland Hill House, Boythorpe Road
CHESTERFIELD, Derbyshire S49 1HQ”

vI9I'7O

Section 13, para. Not applicable Not applicable Reference to “Post Office employees” should be changed to “Royal Mail employees”.

9:

Section 13, para Not applicable Section 9, para6 I References to “the Post Office” should be changed to “Post Office Ltd”.

12:

Section 15, para. Section 10(M), Section 11, para I References to “the Post Office” should be to “Royal Mail Group plc or any of its predecessors”.

6(c), para. 12 and =I para 6(c) and 6(c), para 12 and

para. 14: para 12 ara 14

Section 16, para. Section 12(M), Section 12, para I New form P13 attached.

3(a ara 3(a) 3(a)

Section 16, para. Section 12(M), Section 12, para 4 I Reference to a “Post Office employee” should be to a “Royal Mail employee”

4: para 4

Section 16, para. 5 I Section 12(M), Section 12, para 5 I All references to “the Post Office” should be changed to “ each of Royal Mail Group plc and Post
para 5 Office Ltd”

Section 16, para.6 I Section 12(M) Section 12 para 6 I All references to “ the Post Office” should be changed to “ Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc
para.6

4102
Fciai'za

POL00422653
POL00422653

Specific changes by contract type and section

Subpostmasters I Modified Community Amendments
Contract ref. Subpostmasters I Subpostmasters
Contract ref. Contract ref.
Section 16, Section 12(M), Section 12, New appendices 1,2 and 3 attached.
Appendices 1, 2 Appendices 1,2 Appendices 1, 2
and 3: and 3: and 3:
Section 17, para. Section 13(M), Section 13, para} The words: “the Post Office” should read: “ either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc”
10(b): para 10(b) 10(b)
Section 17, para. Section 13(M), Section 13, para The words: “ in the Post Office” should read: “ by either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc"
14: para 14 14

Section 17, para. Section 13(M),
15 and para. 16 para. 15 and

Section 13, para.
15 and para. 16

References to “Post Office employee(s)” should read as follows: “employee(s) of “ either Post
Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc”

and Section 18, para. 16 and and Section 14, Reference to “Post Office duties” in para 16 should read “duties for Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail
para. 2: Section 14(M), para. 2: Group plc”

para. 2:
Section 18: Section 14(M): Section 14: Words: “outside the Post Office” should read “ outside either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group
Heading and para. I Heading and Heading and pic”
6: para. 6: para. 6: “Post Office papers” should read “Post Office Ltd papers”
Section 19, paras. I Section 15(M), Section 15, paras. I References to “the Post Office”, “should read “either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc”
3, 7 and 11: paras. 3, 7 and 3, 7 and 11:

441:
Section 19, paras. I Section 15(M), Section 15, paras. I References to “Post Office employee/property” should be to: “employee/property of “either Post
7, 10 and 17: paras. 7, 10 and 7, 10 and 17 Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc”.

17: Paragraph 7 — reference to “the Post Office” should read “either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail

Group plc”

Section 20, para. Section 16(M),
3: para. 3:

Section 16(M),
para. 3:

Reference to “the Post Office” should be to “Post Office Ltd”.

Section 21, para. Not applicable Section 17, para. I Reference to “The Post Office” should be to “Post Office Ltd”.

10: 10:

Section 24: Not applicable Not applicable All references to “Post Office”, or “the Post Office” should be changed to “Royal Mail Group plc”.
Paragraph 2 - reference to “Post Office staff’ should read “Royal Mail staff”
Paragraph 3 — reference to “the Royal Mail” should read “Royal Mail Group plc”

4nnss02

BEER BREE HM BER e ee Re RP PRP PRP PPP ee nme es Se SS SS

PYOURESRERECENERERGEiteearirarraa es I

POL00422653
POL00422653

Notice of Subpostmaster’s Contract and Community Subpostmaster’s Contract
Variation

Post Office Ltd will introduce a new Post Office® saving stamp on 16 August 2004. The
introduction by Post Office Ltd of the saving stamp to the list of Post Office® products and
services to be provided in the course of a Post Office® business will require a variation to be
made to the provisions of Section 23 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and Section19 of the
Community Subpostmaster’s Contract (which Sections are identical in content).

Therefore, in accordance with Section 1, Paragraph 18 of

(i) the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and

(ii) the Community Subpostmaster’s Contract

(which enable changes to be made to the relevant Contract),

as of 1 August 2004, Section 23 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and Section 19 of the
Community Subpostmaster's Contract, will bevaried as follows:

(a) the following words should be added to the end of Paragraph 1:
“...except in the case of Post Office® saving stamps which may be
accepted for all Post Office® goods and services, and any other goods
and services that the Subpostmaster has, at his/her own discretion,
decided to allow.”; and

(b) the following words should be added to the end of part (i) of Paragraph 2:
“,..except in the case of Post Office® saving stamps and only then where

the Subpostmaster is paying change for a purchase made using the Post
Office® saving stamps and the amount of such change is under £5.00.”

Post Office Ltd

July 2004

D2.1/6/6

POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 21 Subpostmasters Contract / SECTION 17 Community Subpostmasters
Contract

Telephone facilities at sub Post Office® Branches

The Official Branch Telephone Line

1. A Subpostmaster must arrange for the provision of suitable telephone
facilities at his sub Post Office branch to meet the needs of the official business of
Post Office Ltd and the requirements of security. These telephone facilities are
known as “The Official Branch Telephone Line”.

2. Where possible, The Official Branch Telephone Line must be provided by BT
in order that Post Office Ltd may use the line for the Post Office Ltd Asymmetric
Digital Subscriber Line [ADSL] service.

3. Where a BT line is installed the Horizon equipment or any future
replacement for the Horizon equipment or any official Post Office Ltd equipment as
Post Office Ltd may from time to time specify will be connected to the Master Line
Box at the sub Post Office branch and will utilise the Post Office Ltd ADSL service
that runs over The Official Branch Telephone Line.

4. Where it is not possible to install a BT line the Horizon equipment or any
future replacement for the Horizon equipment or any official Post Office Ltd
equipment as Post Office Ltd may from time to time specify will continue to utilise
the ISDN line connected to the sub Post Office branch and/or The Official Branch
Telephone Line.

5. Whether The Official Branch Telephone is provided by BT or by another
telecommunications service provider the operational and security needs of Post
Office Ltd must at all times take precedence in terms of the use made of The Official
Branch Telephone Line. Where these needs conflict with the private use by the
Subpostmaster of The Official Branch Telephone Line, the Subpostmaster must
cease such private use.

6. Provided that the requirements of paragraphs 1 to 5 above are met:

a) the Subpostmaster may utilise The Official Branch Telephone Line for
private purposes in addition to official Post Office Ltd purposes, and

b) The Subpostmaster may order the addition of extra services for The Official
Branch Telephone Line from the telecommunications service provider of that
line.

In either circumstance it is the responsibility of the Subpostmaster to pay for the
installation and operation of any additional services or use

POL00422653
POL00422653

nm
nm
it
Lt
Li]
th
1
ie
a
&
&
&

&
r
&
&
c
e
c
c
e
c
c=
£
c
e
z
I
x
~

A

2116/7
es i a

-~k—eR w= Rw RB BB EB Eee SSS 4

7. Should the Subpostmaster wish to make use of his rights under paragraph 6
above, he or she must first seek Post Office Ltd’s agreement to any such changes by
contacting the NBSC. Only changes authorised by Post Office Ltd may be
introduced.

8. Any movement of or changes to any of the telephone or other
communications equipment at the sub Post Office branch that are the result of
changes initiated by the Subpostmaster, including but not limited to refurbishment
or re-location of the branch, will be the responsibility of the Subpostmaster. The
Subpostmaster will be responsible for ordering and paying for the movement or
changes from the telecommunication service provider.

9. Post Office Ltd reserves the right to amend and update the requirements of
this section in the future should the operational and security needs of Post Office
Ltd require such a change.

10. I The Subpostmaster agrees to co-operate with Post Office Ltd in relation to
the installation at the sub Post Office branch of any other forms of communications
equipment or data links to be used for the purposes of conducting the official
business of Post Office Ltd.

Provision of the Official Branch Telephone Line
11. The Subpostmaster must provide
(a) a direct exchange line; or

(b) an extension plan installation comprising a portable telephone and
two sockets: one to be installed in the sub-post office and the other in
the Subpostmaster’s bedroom. (This type of installation is only
required where POL considers it is desirable, as a security measure,
and where the Subpostmaster resides on the premises. However, Post
Office Ltd will not require this type of system to be installed at island
and small rural offices where Post Office Ltd considers that the risk of
criminal attack is clearly negligible).

12. The Subpostmaster’s requirement to provide The Official Branch Telephone
Line may be discharged in the following ways:

12.1 By transferring responsibility for and ownership of the BT line at the
sub Post Office branch to Post Office Ltd. Under this arrangement, Post
Office Ltd becomes responsible to BT for the line rental and for the cost of
Official calls made by the Subpostmaster. Private calls made by the
Subpostmaster are his or her responsibility and BT will invoice him or her
directly for such calls. This arrangement is known as “Split Billing”. As Post
Office Ltd pays BT directly for the official use of this line the Subpostmaster
incurs no telephone costs for the provision of The Official Branch Telephone
Line and has no need to reclaim such costs from Post Office Ltd.

I

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.1/6/8
As BT provides the Official Branch Telephone Line under this option, it meets
the requirements of the Post Office Ltd ADSL service. It is the simplest and
preferred option.

Subpostmasters who sign a novation accepting the transfer of the line to
Post Office Ltd are deemed to have accepted this option. Once this option
has been accepted it cannot be reversed. New Subpostmasters who take up
appointment at sub Post Office branches where a previous Subpostmaster
has transferred to Split Billing are required to continue with that
arrangement.

Subpostmasters taking up appointment from 1st April 2005 at sub Post
Office branches where The Official Branch telephone Line is provided by BT
but where previous subpostmasters have not transferred to Split Billing are
required as a condition of such appointment to agree to transfer to Split
Billing by signing the necessary novation form provided by Post Office Ltd at
the time of their appointment.

12.2 Byallowing the installation by Post Office Ltd at the sub Post Office
branch of a separate BT line to be used as The Official Branch Telephone
Line. Under this option the Subpostmaster retains whatever private lines and
/or telecommunications facilities he or she wishes, but those facilities are not
used for official purposes. As Post Office Ltd pays BT directly for the official
use of this line the Subpostmaster incurs no telephone costs for the provision
of The Official Branch Telephone Line and has no need to reclaim such costs
from Post Office Ltd.

As BT provides the Official Branch Telephone Line under this option, it meets
the requirements of the Post Office Ltd ADSL service.

New Subpostmasters who take up appointment at sub Post Office branches
where a previous Subpostmaster has adopted this option are required to
continue with this arrangement.

12.3 By the provision of The Official Branch Telephone Line via BT or
another telecommunications service provider in circumstances where the
Subpostmaster retains responsibility for and ownership of the Line. In such
circumstances, the Subpostmaster is billed directly by the service provider for
all costs associated with the line and is entitled to reclaim from Post Office
Ltd the ‘official’ element of those costs in accordance with paragraphs 13 to
19, below.

If the telephone facilities provided under this option do not meet the
specifications required by the Post Office Ltd ADSL service the facilities will
not be acceptable as The Official Branch Telephone Line. In such
circumstances the Subpostmaster must either agree to transfer to option
12.1 or option 12.2 unless Post Office Ltd is unable to offer either of those
options, in which case the existing arrangements would continue. In the

POL00422653
POL00422653

é
&
&
z
x
z
tC]
&
2
«
&
&
&
®
g
r]
2
a
B
tj
s
5
E
gE
5
cE
E
z
E
L
gE
&
&
F

D2.1/6/9 4
event of transfer to option 12.1 or 12.2. he or she would then lose their
entitlement to reclaim costs related to official rental or calls.

New Subpostmasters who take up appointment at sub Post Office branches
where a previous Subpostmaster has adopted this option are required as a
condition of their appointment to change to option 12.1 or 12.2 upon
appointment unless Post Office Ltd is unable to offer either of those options
in which case they may maintain this arrangement.

Telephone Costs Reimbursement

13. The following applies only to those Subpostmasters who provide The Official
Branch telephone Line in accordance with option 12.3 above

Rental Charges

14. Post Office Ltd on production of a paid quarterly telephone account, will
reimburse the Subpostmaster the rental charges billed by BT including the VAT
element (see paragraph 19) appropriate to the type of telephone facility that Post
Office Ltd has agreed is necessary. Rental charges which exceed the levels so
authorised by Post Office Ltd remain the responsibility of the Subpostmaster.

Call Unit Allowance

15. Each Subpostmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance
of call units for official purposes, based on the scale of Post Office business
transacted; any part of the allowance not expended in a telephone account period
cannot be carried over to the next. The Subpostmaster is due to pay for all call units
used in excess of this allowance.

16. The standard allowances have been fixed at a level which takes into account
the varying conditions between offices. They also allow a margin for contingencies.

Branch Banding (per annum) Official call
per annum
Up to £12k £5.48
Between £12k and £25k £10.92
Between £25k and £35k £40.32
over £35k £52.92

Supplementary Allowance

17. Mailwork Subpostmaster may claim an additional allowance, in respect of
calls made in connection with his Mailwork responsibilities, providing that the
standard allowance has been expended. A claim, supported by documentary

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/10
POL00422653
POL00422653

evidence should be submitted to Post Office Ltd with the telephone account
for the period concerned.
Submission of Telephone Reimbursement Claim

18. The Subpostmaster must submit his paid telephone invoice one a quarterly basis
for reimbursement.

Reimbursement of VAT Charges
19. Post Office Ltd will reimburse the Subpostmaster the charges raised for VAT

at the standard rate, in respect of that part of the total charge related to Post Office
services, i.e. rental, the free call allowance and emergency repairs.

END

RRER ARP PRR RRP RPP APPR PPP RRR

D2.1/6/

4
i

POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE LTD
SECTION 17 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT
SECTION 13 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT,

SECTION 13(M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT

SUBPOSTMASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS; BETTING AND GAMBLING; LICENSED PREMISES;
BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY; POLITICAL ACTIVITIES; CANVASSING FOR BUSINESS;
EMPLOYMENT IN ROYAL MAIL GROUP PLC OR CIVIL SERVICE.

1.

PRIVATE BUSINESS

The appointment of a Subpostmaster confers on the individual concerned the right to
‘transact, and to receive payment for, certain items of business on behalf of Post Office Ltd.
The conditions of the appointment also involve such non-compete restrictions on the
private activities of the Subpostmaster on the premises in which his Post Office® branch is
situated as are fundamental and necessary to ensure the continued viability of Post Office
Ltd’s nationwide network.

It is important to the future of the Post Office® network that all Subpostmasters support
Post Office® products and services. A Subpostmaster who offers products or services in his
private retail business on the premises in which his Post Office® branch is situated which
compete with Post Office® products and services can reduce the revenue generated by the
Post Office® branch. This revenue is essential to provide a contribution to Post Office Ltd’s
fixed costs of maintaining the Post Office® network. Without this contribution, Post Office
Ltd might not be able to sustain the Post Office® network. It is therefore also in the
interests of all Subpostmasters to support this principle.

It is also in the interests of all Subpostmasters that Post Office Ltd is able to seek and
negotiate business opportunities for the whole Post Office® network and that it does not
allow clients or suppliers to enter into arrangements directly with selected Post Office®
branches only to the disadvantage of the rest of the network. This would adversely affect
Post Office Ltd’s ability to maintain the Post Office® network as a whole.

Subpostmasters benefit from being part of the Post Office® network. In addition to
Payments which Subpostmasters receive from Post Office Ltd, Post Office Ltd invests in
advertising that brings customers into Post Office® branches, it ensures that Post Office®
Products meet regulatory requirements and it provides customer and business services such
as helplines to support: Subpostmasters.

D2.1/6/12
15

Accordingly, except as permitted by and in compliance with any waiver granted by Post
Office Ltd in accordance with paragraph 1.11 below, a Subpostmaster must not undertake in
a private capacity, or allow anyone else to undertake on the premises in which his Post
Office® branch is situated, the types of business listed in paragraph 1. 6 of this section 17,
as amended by Post Office Ltd from time to time in accordance with paragraph 1.8 below.

The non-compete restrictions on private business activities on the premises in which the

Post Office® branch is situated are as follows:

(i) business concerned with the provision of services relating to the collection,
conveyance and/or delivery of letters, parcels and packages (collectively called
“Packets” in this paragraph) including without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing: the sale of stamps, pre-paid postage labels and stationery with prepaid
postage; the acceptance, retention, sortation, return and redirection of Packets
(including Packets containing mail order or other home shopping goods and other
Packets); and the acceptance of payment for such services;

(i) services for the payment of bills, the collection of payments (including pre-
payments) or the collection of revenue (whether by the sale of stamps or meter
tokens, the charging of budget keys or by other means) in connection with services
for the supply of water, gas, fixed line telephones, electricity, cable or satellite
television, or local authority services;

(iii) the sale of National Lottery products;

(iv) Banking, Building, Industrial and Provident Society, Friendly Society or Credit Union
business or otherwise making available banking facilities including, without
limitation, cheque-cashing, bureau de change (including the selling and buying back
of currency, on demand and pre-order services), collecting deposits or providing
withdrawal facilities on behalf of deposit-takers whether over-the-counter or
through an automated teller machine (ATM) or providing loans, credit cards or other
forms of credit or credit brokerage services but not including the provision of cash-
back transactions or the provision of basic saving stamp schemes which do not
involve the return of cash to participants in the scheme. For the avoidance of doubt,
a cash-back transaction is the withdrawal of cash via a debit card scheme, from the
account associated with the card used, as part of a transaction for the purchase of
goods or services through the same scheme; and

POL00422653
POL00422653
=——s = = eee

17

18

19

POL00422653
POL00422653

(vy) any financial services business or otherwise making available facilities which may
compete with the financial services activities carried on or to be carried on by
Subpostmasters at any time for or on behalf of Post Office Ltd or through Post
Office® branches or which may compromise the regulatory status of Post Office
Ltd (including for this purpose, its Subpostmasters) in its role as appointed
representative of Post Office Ltd’s financial service product providers, including, for
the avoidance of doubt, the promotion of competing financial services but not
including the provision of basic savings stamps schemes which do not involve the

return of cash to participants in the scheme.

For the avoidance of doubt, these non-compete restrictions apply to all methods of
transaction of the areas of business set out above. This includes, without limitation, the use
of smartcards, ATMs and on-line terminals.

The categories of business listed in paragraph 1.6 above constitute the current non-compete
restrictions but Post Office Ltd reserves the right to review these restrictions in the light of
changing business requirements, varying them if necessary. All Subpostmasters will be
given at least 12 months’ notice in writing of any such changes. No restrictions will be
introduced on products or services other than Key Products and Services, as defined in
section 1.9 of this section 17.

Key Products and Services are the core products and services offered by Post Office Ltd. The
Key Products and Services are:

(i) Letters, parcels and packages services of any kind and related services;

(ii) Services for the payment of bills, collection of payment or collection of revenue;
(iii) National Lottery products;

(iv) Banking services, including bureau de change;

(vy) Financial services,

(vi) National Savings and Investment products;

(vii) Money transfer services;

(viii) Postal orders;

(ix) Savings stamps;

&) Benefits’ distribution and Government services;

(xi) Motor vehicle and driver licensing services and other motorist services;

(xii) Telephony products and services;

(xiii) Travel ticketing and travel passes; and

(xiv) Television licensing services.

2.16/14
1.10

1.13

21

POL00422653

POL00422653

Post Office Ltd reserves the right to amend this list of Key Products and Services from time
to time. No new products or services will be introduced to this list which are not current or

future key sources of revenue and/or contribution for Post Office Ltd.

If a Subpostmaster is considering taking up a new private retail business opportunity which
may fall within the scope of the non-compete restrictions specified in paragraph 1.6 above,
he should, before he takes up any such business, inform Post Office Ltd of the circumstances
and seek advice as to whether the work concerned falls within the restrictions described

above.

Subpostmasters may apply for a waiver from the non-compete restrictions in paragraph 1.6
of this section 17. Post Office Ltd’s waiver policy is available on the Post Office Ltd website.

This sets out the circumstances in which a waiver may be granted and the procedures that

must be followed. This policy is subject to amendment by Post Office Ltd from time to time.

If a waiver is granted subject to conditions, a Subpostmaster must comply with these
conditions. A failure to do so will result in the waiver being invalid from the date the

Subpostmaster ceased to comply with the conditions.

A Subpostmaster must not use and must ensure that no third party uses the name “Post
Office” in connection with any of his private business activities (or the private business
activities of a company with which he is associated in any way) or in such a way as to imply
that Post Office Ltd is in any way connected with these activities. Nor may a Subpostmaster
transact any private business in a way that might lead customers to conclude that Post
Office Ltd is in any way connected with that business.

A Subpostmaster must not engage Royal Mail Group employees to undertake any work
whatsoever connected with the Subpostmaster’s private business (or the private business
activities of a company with which he is associated in any way) at any time when they are
employed in Post Office® or Royal Mail Group duties.

BETTING AND GAMBLING; LICENSED PREMISES; BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

A Subpostmaster and his Assistants must not:

i) bet or gamble by means of post (betting by private telephone off the Post Office®
part of the premises is permissible); or

02.16/15
~--<-es em menue ne et eK KKK

2.2

23

24

25

26

POL00422653
POL00422653

—<—$—$ $$ ————

(ii) take part in racing etc. pool or competitions or betting at “fixed odds” on football
matches (there is no objection to participation in ordinary football pool
competition).

A Subpostmaster must not on the premises in which the Post Office® branch is situated;

() allow or provide for gambling; or
(ii) conduct any business with a turf commission agency or a football or turf pool
agency.

Notwithstanding the conditions of Paragraphs 1.6(iii), 1.10 and 2.2 above, a Subpostmaster
and his Assistants may in a private capacity take part in or act as a promoter of such local
lotteries as are permitted under the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 (Northern Ireland
in part Ill of the Betting and Lotteries Act (Northern Ireland) 1957). The onus of ensuring
that the law is complied with rests with the person concerned in the promotion and conduct
of the lottery and the sale of tickets. Tickets for such lotteries must not be sold over the Post
Office® branch counter nor must the Post Office® branch be used in any way for
advertising purposes, e.g. in giving addresses at which tickets are available, nor must
advertisements include the words Post Office/Post Office®, Sub-Post Office/Sub-Post
Office®, Post Office branch/Post Office® branch or Subpostmaster.

A Post Office® branch may not be situated in premises for which an “on” licence allowing for
the sale of drinks, other than a restaurant, has been granted, unless the premises have been
clearly divided so that Post Office® customers do not need to go through the licensed
premises. There is no objection to the Subpostmaster holding an “off” licence provided the
liquor is sold in closed vessels.

Neither a Subpostmaster nor any company with which he is associated in any way must
borrow from or Jend money to any Royal Mail Group employee. Nor should a
Subpostmaster or any such company provide security for the benefit of any Royal Mail
Group employee in raising a loan.

The loaning of money by a Subpostmaster or by any company with which he is associated
in any way to persons drawing pensions or allowances on the security or strength of their

Post Office Card Accounts or of expected future payments from the Department of Work
and Pensions is also strictly forbidden.

D2.1/6/16
POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 15 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

SECTION 11 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 10(M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

ASSISTANTS

INTRODUCTION

Post Office Ltd must comply with certain obligations in relation to the Post Office®
business, including those of: Postcomm, Ofcom and Financial Services Authority

regulations, and money laundering and immigration legislation. Some of these obligations

require Post Office Ltd to ensure that its Subpostmasters (and any persons employed or

engaged by Subpostmasters on Post Office® business) are made aware of, and know how to
comply with, the terms of such regulations and legislation. These requirements have been set
out in this Contract (in particular, but not limited to, this Section and the Section dealing with

Divulgence of Official Information). The obligations placed upon Subpostmasters are the
minimum necessary to ensure that both Post Office Ltd and Subpostmasters are compliant
with the regulations and legislation mentioned above, and are, in the main, what most

Subpostmasters, as responsible employers, should be doing anyway. The objectives of these

obligations are:

e to ensure that Post Office Ltd complies with the relevant regulations and legislation,
and

© to ensure as far as possible that Subpostmasters do so too, and that no Subpostmaster

suffers from the consequences of failure to so comply. (This is very important, as
those consequences can include criminal prosecution.)

Subpostmasters have a duty to ensure that they are aware and that they make their staff
aware, of the obligations set out in this Contract.

GENERAL
1. A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any suitable assistants with the
relevant skills which he may need to carry out the Post Office® work in his sub Post
Office® branch (“Assistants”).
2. Assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster, and the Subpostmaster will
to:

2.4 apply Post Oftice® rules or instructions as required by Post Office Ltd;

2.2 complete any training necessary in order to properly provide Post Office®
Services; and

2.3 comply with the obligations set out below.

The Subpostmaster will also be required to make good any deficiency of cash or stock

which may result from his Assistants’ actions or inactions.

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

consequently be held wholly responsible for any failure, on the part of his Assistants,

POL00422653
POL00422653

2a Deen eee ee i

41

42

43

POL00422653

POL00422653

This Section contains the obligations which the Subpostmaster has to fulfil in relation
to the recruitment and employment of each of his Assistants (which includes any
members of his own family). Where the Subpostmaster fails to comply with any of
these terms, he may be deemed to be in breach of his Contract which will then be
liable to termination. The obligations in this Section are additional to the
Subpostmaster’s responsibility, as the employer of his Assistants, to comply with the
provisions of any legislation and regulations that impose obligations on employers,
providers of postal services and financial services, or sellers of insurance or
communications products.

RECRUITMENT

The Subpostmaster must establish and maintain a recruitment file for each Assistant.
In order to meet its legal obligations regarding monitoring of compliance, Post Office
Ltd will be entitled to inspect such recruitment files from time to time upon giving the
Subpostmaster reasonable written notice that they should be made available for such
inspection. The recruitment file should include, in the format of the Recruitment
Checklist at Appendix 3 to this Section, a comprehensive record of all checks carried
out in relation to the recruitment, selection and employment of any person applying to
him for employment as an Assistant ( defined in this Contract as the “Applicant”).

The Subpostmaster is responsible for carrying out all necessary checks in order to
satisfy himself as to the honesty, integrity and suitability of any Applicant. He must
also take certain steps, as set out below, in order to satisfy himself as to:

. the right to work in the UK;

. the identity and permanent National Insurance number; and
. the address,
of any Applicant.

Proof of Right to Work in the UK

The following procedures are necessary to meet the requirements of immigration
legislation:

Step 1

The Subpostmaster will need to ask all Applicants to provide documentation that
satisfies the criteria listed at Appendix 2 to this Section.

Step 2
The Subpostmaster must satisfy himself that the Applicant is the rightful holder of
any of the documents he presents.

The Subpostmaster must carry out the following reasonable steps when checking any
documents presented by an Applicant:

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

2.16/18
POL00422653
POL00422653

check any photographs, where provided, to ensure that they are consistent

a) 1
i arance of the Applicant; ;
aie eat ihe dates of birth listed are consistent with each other and with the

» appearance of the Applicant; ;

9) check that the expiry dates are valid and the documents are still live; ;

d) check any United Kingdom Government stamps or endorsements to see if the
Applicant is able to do the type of work he is offering;

e) if the Applicant gives you, from List 2 of Appendix 2, two documents that
have different names for the Applicant, you should ask him for a further
document to explain the reason for this. (The further document could be a
marriage certificate, divorce document, deed poll, adoption certificate or
statutory declaration.)

Step 3

The Subpostmaster should make a photocopy of the following parts of all the
documents shown to him for retention in the recruitment file:

a) the front cover and all of the pages which give the Applicant’s personal
details. In particular, the Subpostmaster should copy: (i) the page with the
photograph, and (ii) the page which shows the Applicant’s signature; and

b) any page containing a United Kingdom Government stamp or endorsement
that permits the Applicant to do the type of work the Subpostmaster is
offering.

If it is not possible to make the necessary photocopies at the time, the documents
should be retained, copied at the earliest possible opportunity and returned to the
Applicant. 7

Step 4

List in the Applicant’s recruitment file all documents seen and copied on steps 1-3
above (e.g. ‘UK Passport — Number 12345678’; or ‘Full birth certificate and a P60
dated 14 April 2005’).

4.4 Proof of Permanent National Insurance Number

4.4.1 Unless already provided and photocopied, as part of an Applicant’s
documentation proving his Right to Work in the UK, the Subpostmaster will
need to see a document giving the Applicant’s permanent National Insurance
Number and name. This could be a: P45, P60, National Insurance card, or a
letter from a Government agency.

4.4.2 The Subpostmaster must then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the
document seen (there is no need to photocopy the document if it is provided
solely for proving the NI number).

4.4.3 For the small number of Applicants who are unable to supply a permanent
National Insurance number, they should be asked to explain why, the reason
should be noted and the Subpostmaster should consider carefully whether to
proceed with the application. Applicants with a genuine reason for being
unable to supply a permanent National Insurance number (such as Applicants

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

BARA RP PRP RP RP RPP RP RP RP RP RP PR RPP eee eee eee ee ee

p2.16/198
i

i

I

I

I 4.5
{

I

1

t I

i

1

a

z

i

1

a 4.6
a

F I

4 47
a 4.8
a

a 49
F I

a

a 4.10
a

a

a

a

a

4 4.11
2

a

a

POL00422653

POL00422653
TY

from outside the UK) should be advised that they would need to obtain one.
from the relevant authorities prior to being appointed.

Proof of Address

The Subpostmaster must see at least one of the following items showing the
Applicant’s name and current address:

Driving Licence

Recent Paid Gas or Electricity Bill

Recent Paid Telephone Bill (not mobile)

Recent Paid Council Tax Bill

Recent Paid Water Bill

Recent TV Licence

Recent Bank Statement, must be supported by a credit/debit card

(In relation to the above “Recent” means no more than 3 months old.)

The Subpostmaster must then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the details of the
document seen (there is no need to photocopy the ‘proof of address’ document).

The Subpostmaster must ensure that all recruitment files for successful Applicants
have been correctly annotated and the associated photocopies have been included to
provide proof of an Applicant’s right to work in the UK. There should be no missing
photocopies, incorrect combinations of documents or incomplete tick lists.

The Subpostmaster must not confirm an Applicant’s appointment until the criteria
have been met and the registration process outlined below has been completed.

It is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to ascertain that all documentation supplied by
the Applicant satisfies the criteria.

References

At the recruitment stage, the Subpostmaster will need to obtain at least 2 references
(which must be independent of the Applicant and of each other) in respect of the
Applicant.

Work History

The Subpostmaster must obtain a work history from each Applicant for the
immediately preceding 5 years (unless the period in which each Applicant has worked.
can be proved to be less than 5 years, in which case the work history of the full period
must be obtained). It is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to assure himself of the
validity and accuracy of the details provided by the Applicant. (Measures to achieve

this could include questioning at interview, and the seeking of references from
previous employers).

Honesty, Integrity and Suitability

4.11.1 The Subpostmaster must seek information from each Applicant about any
unspent convictions, including conditional discharges, for any offence in a
Court of Law (including a Youth Court or Court Martial) or any caution,

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

!

D2.1/6/20
POL00422653
POL00422653

reprimand or warning. The Subpostmaster must also seek information from
each Applicant about any pending criminal proceedings in which the
Applicant might be involved. The Subpostmaster must also seek information
from each Applicant about mis-selling of any product or service or lack of
integrity in any form of employment involving selling.

4.11.2 In order to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on
Post Office® work, the Subpostmaster must, before the Applicant begins
employment with the Subpostmaster, complete the registration process
detailed at 4.11.3 below (defined in this Contract as the “Registration
Process”). Under no circumstances must the Subpostmaster employ an
Assistant before the Registration Process is completed and the Subpostmaster
has received clearance from Post Office Ltd to employ that Assistant. All
Assistants must be registered, including members of the Subpostmaster’s
family who may only occasionally work in the Post Office® branch. Holiday
reliefs also need to be registered.

4.11.3 The Registration Process

(i) To register an Applicant as an Assistant the Subpostmaster must complete
forms P250 and P13. The text of form P250 is at Appendix 1I to this
Section. The text of form P13 is at Appendix 1 to the Section dealing with
Divulgence of Official Information. In addition the Applicant must
complete and sign a Security Checks Consent Form. The Subpostmaster
may obtain these forms from Post Office Ltd.

(ii) Form P250. The Subpostmaster must complete and sign Section 1; the
Applicant must complete and sign Section 2. The Subpostmaster must
then submit the completed form to the address indicated on it.
The Subpostmaster must ensure that any details referred to in paragraphs I
4.11.1 above and 4.11.5 below about the Applicant (defined in this
Contract as “Relevant Information”) which have come to his attention are I
honestly recorded on the form. This will enable Post Office Ltd to ,
conduct its own checks into the background of the Applicant.

(iii) Security Checks Consent Form. The Applicant must complete this form
in his own handwriting and sign and date it. The Subpostmaster must I
check that form is complete and legible and that the personal details
shown on it match those entered on the P250. The completed form should I
be sent with the competed P250 to the address shown on the P250. I

(iv)Form P13. If the Subpostmaster is satisfied that the identity, character, I
history and suitability of any Applicant will not cause him to breach any
of the obligations in this Contract he must require that the Applicant I
makes a personal declaration on form P13 prior to commencing work in
the Post Office® branch. Two copies of this form must be completed, one I
of which must be kept by the Applicant, and the other should be sent, with
the completed P250 and the completed Security Checks Consent Form, to
the return address on the P250. Both the Subpostmaster and the Applicant I
must sign the P13.

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants I

2.16/21
I
I
r 4.11.4
r
r
r
!
r
‘i 4.11.5
!
I
l
I

POL00422653

POL00422653

(v) Pre-employment checks will be carried out upon receipt by Post Office
Ltd of the relevant forms, which should be fully and legibly completed.
(These checks can take up to seven working days.)

(vi) The Subpostmaster will then be informed whether or not he may employ
the Applicant as an Assistant.

Where Post Office Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not be in its
best interests for a particular Applicant to be engaged upon Post Office®
business or to have access to any part of the Post Office® branch it will be
entitled to require the Subpostmaster to refrain from employing that Applicant
on Post Office® business if not already employed, or to ensure that the
Applicant is not further employed on Post Office® business if already
employed. If after such a requirement has been reasonably made by Post
Office Ltd the Subpostmaster continues to employ such Applicant he may be
deemed to be in breach of his Contract as referred to in paragraph 3 above.

If details of any offences committed by the Applicant relating to:

jw the delivery or handling of mail, post or packets; or

(ii) _ theft or the obtaining of property by deception or fraud; or

(iii) mis-selling of any product or service; or

(iv) lack of integrity in any form of employment involving selling; or

(v) dishonest conduct of any kind,

come to Post Office Ltd’s attention by any means and Post Office Ltd notifies
this fact to the Subpostmaster the Applicant will not until further notice be

eligible to work on Post Office® business or any business concerning Royal
Mail Group ple and the provisions of paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.

4.12 Asa general guide no person under 16 years of age should be employed on Post
Office® work, or have access to Postal Packets. However where there is no reasonable
alternative to the part-time employment of an Assistant under 16 years of age, such
employment must be subject to the following conditions:

© no person under the age of 14 years may be employed in any capacity;
° the Assistant, even ifa family member, should be fully registered with Post Office
Ltd in accordance with the provisions of this Section 15; and

the Subpostmaster must comply with all relevent legislation affecting the employment

of young persons and children.

5. UNSUITABLE PERSONS

3.1

During the entire period that an Assistant is employed by the Subpostmaster, the

Subpostmaster will report immediately to Post Office Ltd any Relevant Information
4s soon as he becomes aware of same.

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

eee

2.1/6/22
POL00422653
POL00422653

5.2 If

5.2.1 the Subpostmaster does not submit a form P250 prior to the employment by
him of the Applicant; or

5.2.2 the Subpostmaster does not declare on the form P250 any Relevant
Information concerning the Applicant of which he was aware; or

5.2.3 the Applicant fails any checks carried out internally by Post Office Ltd; or

5.2.4 the Subpostmaster does not report to Post Office Ltd as soon as possible any
Relevant Information of which he becomes aware (after submission of a form
P250),

the provisions of paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.
6. ONGOING REGISTRATION CHECKS

6.1 To meet the needs of regulation and legislation Post Office Ltd must be able to
maintain accurate details of all those who work in Post Office® branches. In addition
to completing forms P250 and P13 when employing new Assistants, the
Subpostmaster is, therefore, required each year to take part in an annual check of
persons employed in Post Office® branches. The current mechanism for this check is
the form P356, which the Subpostmaster is required to fill out and return. This
provides Post Office Ltd with up-to-date details of the people working in a Post
Office® branch and acts as a monitoring check that every Assistant has been cleared
through the pre-employment checking system. It is absolutely essential that the
Subpostmaster cooperates fully with this process or any replacement process that Post
Office Ltd may subsequently and reasonably require.

6.2 The details listed on form P356 for each Assistant, which the Subpostmaster will need
to check for accuracy and amend as necessary are as follows:

¢ Post Office® branch name and address, FAD (or Branch) code
¢ Assistant’s name, date of birth and National Insurance number
e Role type, (e.g. Assistant or holiday relief )

¢ Date employment commenced and, if applicable, date employment ceased and
reason for leaving

¢ Relationship to Subpostmaster (if applicable)
¢ Horizon Log On ID
6.3. Details must be entered on form P356 for every Assistant employed by the
Subpostmaster, even if he only works occasionally e.g. as a holiday relief.
7. TRAINING
7.1 Post Office Ltd will:

7.1.1 provide the Subpostmaster with relevant training materials and processes to
carry out the required training of his Assistants on the Post Office® Products
and Services;

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

D2.1/6/23
ee ee ee ee

POL00422653

POL00422653

7.1.2. inform the Subpostmaster as soon as possible where new or revised training
will be necessary as a result of changes in either the law or Post Office®
Products and Services; and

7.1.3. where appropriate (for instance where clause 7.1.2 of this Section applies)
update the training materials (or processes) or provide new training materials
(or processes) to the Subpostmaster.

However, it is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to ensure the proper deployment
within his Post Office® branch of any materials and processes provided by Post
Office Ltd and to ensure that his Assistants receive all the training which is necessary
in order to be able to properly provide the Post Office® Products and Services and to
perform any other tasks required in connection with the operation of the Post Office®
branch.

7.2. Where Post Office Ltd has obligations to third parties in relation to certain Post
Office® Products and Services (including, but not limited to, financial transactions
(such as bureau de change, and sales of insurance) and communications products, and
provision of mail services), the Subpostmaster undertakes to use his best endeavours
to ensure that his Assistants will not cause Post Office Ltd to be in breach of such
obligations.

73 Post Office Ltd may request from time to time that where it has obligations as
described above the Subpostmaster should conduct specific training (whether through
written/distance learning that may require confirmation of completion or via
presentations) in relation to certain Post Office® Services (such as, but not limited to,
money laundering). Failure by the Subpostmaster to arrange for such training to be
properly applied will be deemed to be a breach of this Contract by him.

74 Training Policy

7.4.1. The Subpostmaster must formulate a training policy for all his Assistants, in
order to fulfil his obligations in relation to the safekeeping of any Postal
Packets.

74.2 This training policy should include the following elements:

e the levels of training required to fulfil the obligations referred to above at
TAA;

e the levels of training required according to the differing responsibilities of,

and work undertaken by, the Assistants, in relation to Postal Packets;

details of the minimum level of training required;

an explanation of how the training is provided;

the frequency with which training is provided; and

details of how training is given, recorded and monitored.

7.4.3 The policy must also ensure compliance with all other regulatory and
legislative requirements.

74.4 The Subpostmaster must regularly monitor the implementation of and
compliance with the training policy in his Post Office® branch.
Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

I

D2.1/6/24
8.1

8.2

8.3

8.4

9.1

9.2

9.3

POL00422653
POL00422653

SECURITY

The Subpostmaster must inform each of his Assistants of the seriousness of any
offence of damage or interference to any Postal Packet.

The Subpostmaster must ensure that his Assistants comply with the requirements of
the Operations Manual, Volume 5 and the Security Booklet in general - sub sections
3, 4, and 8 in particular, as they apply to:

e — the security of the premises;

¢ the collection, despatch, conveyance or delivery of mail; and

¢ the measures to be taken to prevent or detect loss or theft of or damage to a
Postal Packet.

The Subpostmaster must maintain records which can enable him as far as is
reasonably practicable, to identify which of his Assistants was responsible for the
conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation, delivery or handling of any Postal Packet
which may have been interfered with.

The Subpostmaster must carry out regular assessments of the risk to Postal Packets at
the Post Office® branch.

DISCIPLINE

The Subpostmaster is responsible for:

9.1.1 ensuring that each of his Assistants is made aware: (a) that he is responsible
for the safekeeping of Postal Packet whilst such Postal Packets are in his
custody; (b) that he must take all reasonable measures to protect them from
delay, loss, theft, damage and/or interference of any kind, and (c) that failure
by him to follow any security instruction or procedure issued and amended
(where necessary to minimise the risks referred to above) from time to time by
Post Office Ltd will be deemed to be a breach of condition of this Contract by
the Subpostmaster, and Post Office Ltd reserves the right to take appropriate
action in the circumstances; and

9.1.2 placing the obligations set out in 9.1.1 above directly upon every Assistant
whom he employs on Post Office® business.

The Subpostmaster must establish maintain and adhere consistently to a formal
disciplinary policy in respect of any of his Assistants who fails to comply with his
obligations as set out in this Contract. Where the Subpostmaster already has an
established disciplinary policy for his employees it is simply necessary to ensure that
the policy meets the criteria set out in 9.3 and 9.4 below.

The policy referred to in 9.2 above must include at least the following elements:

9.3.1 an explanation of what constitutes a “failure to meet the standards of
conduct”, and the action to be taken in relation to such failure;

9.3.2 adescription of how the Subpostmaster has conveyed to his Assistants:

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

iad
2.116258
9.4

9.5

9.6

10.

10.1

10.2

POL00422653
POL00422653

e the fact that a failure to meet the standards of conduct might also constitute a
criminal offence; and

¢ the action which will be taken in relation to any such failure;

9.3.3. a provision for the appropriate records to be maintained detailing any action
taken against an Assistant for failure to meet a required standard of conduct;
and

9.3.4 an explanation of:

¢ how the Subpostmaster identifies consistent failures to meet the relevant
standards of conduct; and

e what remedial action the Subpostmaster will take in the event of consistent
failures being made.

The Subpostmaster must regularly review:

¢ . the standards of conduct imposed; and

¢ the disciplinary policy in place.
The Subpostmaster will keep a formal record of his disciplinary policy and any
exercise by him of it, and Post Office Ltd will be entitled to request sight of such
record from time to time, where it is reasonable to do so in order to ensure that the

Subpostmaster is complying with his obligations in this respect.

Where Post Office Ltd believes, in good faith, that a Subpostmaster has not
implemented the disciplinary policy properly (or at all) against an Assistant, where
circumstances justify such implementation, the provisions of paragraph 3 above will
apply.

INFORMATION/REPORTING

The Subpostmaster must as soon as possible upon becoming aware of its occurrence,
report to Post Office Ltd every incidence of loss or theft of, damage to, or
interference with, a Postal Packet (defined in this Contract as an “Incident”).

The Subpostmaster must also record in respect of each Incident at least the following
details:

e the date, time and place;

¢ the number of (or, where not known, a reasonable estimate of) Postal Packets
involved;

¢ as far as reasonably practicable, the Assistants who may have participated in
the conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation or delivery of the Postal Packets
involved; and

any other particulars in relation to it (including the factual circumstances).

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

D2.1/6/26
POL00422653
POL00422653

(Appendices 1, 2, & 3 follow) :

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants I

2.16274
ee ee i a i

POL00422653

POL00422653

SECTION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED]

APPENDIX 1 FORM P250
AS:

‘ANTS AT POST OFFICE

RANCHES

Section 1 of this form should be completed and signed by the Subpostmaster or Franchisee or ‘officer in charge’
whenever considering appointing an Assistant.

Section 2 of this form should be completed and signed by the prospective Assistant.
(Please note that if more than one change is made to Assistants at the branch, a separate form will need to be
completed for each prospective Assistant.)

SECTION 1 - EMPLOYEE (PLEASE COMPLETE IN BLOCK CAPITALS)

POST OFFICE® BRANCH NAME:

FAD CODE: /

SUBPOSTMASTER’S/FRANCHISEE’S/OPERATOR’S/OFFICER IN CHARGE’S NAME:

ADDRESS TO WHICH THE AUTHORISATION LETTER SHOULD BE SENT:

Thave selected (full name in block capitals) as a prospective
Assistant at my branch. I have satisfied myself that his character is satisfactory and I am satisfied that he is
suitable for the relevant duty. I have no reason to suspect that any previous Post Office® service by the
prospective Assistant is not fully stated below.

New Assistant - If the prospective Assistant has previously worked at any Post Office® branches, please give
details below

Branch Position held Start I End_ I Reason for leaving
date date

I can confirm that I have obtained the following information: (Please give details where appropriate and refer
to your contract with Post Office Ltd for the criteria on suitable evidence required)

© Details of the prospective Assistant’s career history over the last 5 years

©  Tworeferences (- either one character and one employment reference, or two character references - but the
referees must be independent of the Applicant and of each other).

© Suitable evidence of identity. State Identity evidence seen

© Suitable evidence of National Insurance No. and address. State evidence seen

* Evidence of right to work in the UK. State evidence seen

Proposed start date of Assistant Horizon User ID (e.g. EPROO1) (Do NOT Enter
Any Passwords)

Subpostmaster/Franchisee/Operator/officer in charge signature:
and name (in block capitals):

Date:

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

I

D2.1/6/28
POL00422653
POL00422653

SECTION 2 - ASSISTANT _DETAILS

Title and name in full (Mr/Mrs/Miss/Ms)
Name at birth, if different from above
Date of birth

Town of birth

Country of birth

National Insurance number

Position (e.g.. Assistant/Holiday Relief)

Home address Previous address (If less than
2 years at present address)

Have you ever been found guilty of any offence (including conditional discharges) in a court of law
(including a Youth Court or Court Martial) or have you received any caution, reprimand or warning,
or have you been involved in any mis-selling or lack of integrity in any form of selling environment?
Please tick “Yes” or “No”. Yes oO No

If the answer is “Yes” give full particulars.

[NOTE: In answering the question please note that it does NOT relate to any conviction or finding
which is treated as spent by virtue of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. If therefore, the only
conviction or finding against you is treated as spent, your answer to the question should be “No”.]

I declare that I have answered all the questions truthfully and fully, and that I am not aware of any
circumstances, which if known to Post Office Ltd, might cause question to my honesty and
suitability.

Signature Date

NOTE: DATA PROTECTION ACT 1
Personal Data supplied on this form may be processed, and/or verified by reference to
information already held by Post Office Limited. 1

Finally, if an existing Assistant is leaving (or has left) employment at the Post Office® branch the I
Subpostmaster or Franchisee or Operator or Officer in Charge, should give details below and ensure
that the official secrets cessation form P301 is completed and returned. 1 I

Name of previous assistant Last date of Reason for leaving
employment ]

Once all the foregoing is complete, please return a) this form, b) the completed P13, c) the '
completed Security Checks Consent form, and d) the completed form P301 (if appropriate) to j
the following address:

Business Expenses Team (P250’s), People and Organisation Services, Capstan House, 35

Broadway, Salford, M50 2PB

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

D2.1/6/29
SECT!

LIST 2

POL00422653

POL00422653

ION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED}

APPENDIX 2
Proof Of Right To Work In The UK — Acceptable Documents

The Applicant must produce either any one of the documents shown below in List 1 or two
documents from either of the combinations shown in List 2.

LIST 1
A passport showing that the holder is a British citizen, or has a right of abode in the
United Kingdom.

A document showing that the holder is a national of a European Economic Area
country (i.e. Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, The Netherlands, United Kingdom) or Switzerland. This must be a national
passport or national identity card. (See note * below).

A residence permit issued by the Home Office to a national from a European
Economic Area country or Switzerland. (See note * below).

A passport or other document issued by the Home Office which has an United
Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement stating that the holder
has a current right of residence in the United Kingdom as the family member of a
national from a European Economic Area country or Switzerland who is resident in
the United Kingdom. (See note * below).

A passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home
Office stamp or endorsement to show that the holder can stay indefinitely in the
United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay. (See note * below).

A passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home
Office stamp or endorsement to show that the holder can stay in the United Kingdom;
and that this stamp or endorsement allows the holder to do the type of work you are
offering if they do not have a work permit. (See note * below).

An Application Registration Card issued by the Home Office to an asylum seeker
stating that the holder is permitted to take employment.

(*Nationals from certain states within the European Economic Area (contact the
Home Office, on} for details) must register with the Home Office
within one month of starting employment; you must advise them to register, and you
will need to provide them with evidence of employment (e.g. a contract or letter) in
order to do so. Once the Home Office registers your employee you should keep the
registration certificate they send to you. It is a criminal offence not to register an
appropriate employee).

1 FIRST COMBINATION

I coul

A. a document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and name. This
be a: P45, P60, National Insurance card, or a letter from a Government agency.

Secti
‘on 15 July 2006_Assistants

es

2.1/6/30
POL00422653
POL00422653

Along with one of the following documents listed in sections B-H below:

B. A full birth certificate issued in the United Kingdom, which includes the names of the
holder’s parents; OR

C. a birth certificate issued in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or Ireland; OR

D. a certificate of registration or naturalization stating that the holder is a British citizen; OR

E. a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder which indicates that the person named in
it can stay indefinitely in the United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay; OR

F. an Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office to the holder with an with a
United Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement indicating that the
person named in it can stay indefinitely in the United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their
stay; OR

G. a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder which indicates that the person named in
it can stay in the United Kingdom, OR

H. an Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office to the holder with an with a
United Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement indicating that the
person named in it can stay in the United Kingdom.

SECOND COMBINATION

(i). A work permit or other approval to take employment that has been issued by Work
Permits UK

Along with one of the following documents listed at (ii) or (iii) below:

(ii). a passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home Office
stamp or endorsement to show that the holder is able to stay in the United Kingdom and can
take the work permit employment in question; OR

(iii) a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder confirming that the person named in it is
able to stay in the United Kingdom and can take the work permit employment in question

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants I

2.11631,
Applicant’s Full Name

Applicant’s National Insurance Number

SECTION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 3

Recruitment Checklist

YES

NO

(@)

At least 2 references obtained?

(b)

Evidence of identity seen?

Documents and details:

©

Evidence of permanent NI Number seen and any
necessary photocopies taken and retained in the
Applicant’s recruitment file? Document and details:

@

Evidence of address seen? Document and details:

Evidence of right to work in UK seen and all necessary
photocopies taken and retained (including Home Office
registration application if applicable) in the Applicant’s
recruitment file?

@

Has the 5 year work history been seen and verified if
necessary?

(g)

Has the Applicant ever been found guilty (including
conditional discharges) of any offence in a court of law
(including a Youth Court or Court Martial)?

(hy

If the answer to (g) is “Yes”, has the Relevant
Information been shown in the P250

@

Has the Applicant received any caution, reprimand or
warning, or has he/she been involved in any mis-selling
or lack of integrity in any form of selling environment?

@

If the answer to (i) is “Yes”, has the Relevant
Information been shown in the P250

(k)

Has the P250 been completed in full and sent to the
relevant address?

@

(m)

(n)

— meee eee

I

Section 15 July 2006_Assistants

Has the P13 been completed in full and sent with the
P250?

Has the authorisation for employment of the Applicant
been received?

Date employment as Assistant commenced.

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/32
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 16 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 12 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 12 (M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE &
INTERVIEWS

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

1. I The unauthorised disclosure, or use, of any information or document which has
come to the knowledge of a Subpostmaster or sub Post Office® Assistant
through the work of his sub Post Office® branch is forbidden. Any such
disclosure may render the offender liable to prosecution.

2. Neither the Subpostmaster nor his Assistants may disclose any information
regarding Postal Packets except to the person(s) to whom such Postal Packets
are addressed; nor may they make known information that may come to them
directly or indirectly by means of the Post Office® business concerning the
character, standing, or responsibility of individuals or firms, or the private
affairs of any person.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

3.1 All new Subpostmasters and newly recruited Assistants are required to signa
Personal Declaration (form P13 attached as Appendix 1 to this Section) which
reminds them of the duty of each of Post Office Ltd and the Royal Mail Group
to ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for
whom they are intended promptly and safely. The Personal Declaration also
brings to the notice of Subpostmasters and Assistants their obligations under the
Postal Services Act 2000. (An extract from this Act is reproduced at Appendix 2
of this Section).

3.2 Every Subpostmaster and each of his Assistants is on termination of his
appointment required to sign a Declaration (P301) to remind him that the
provisions of the Official Secrets Act continue to apply to him after he has left
in respect of all the information which he has acquired or to which he has had
access by virtue of his position as Subpostmaster or Assistant. (A copy of
form P301 is at Appendix 3 of this Section).

3.3 The Subpostmaster must give each of his Assistants a copy of form P13 and,
upon termination of his appointment form P301, as a reminder of the
importance of the messages they contain. The duty not to disclose
information is imposed by the Act referred io in 3.2 above - not by any
Personal Declarations. Consequently no Subpostmaster or Assistant can avoid
these legal obligations by refusing to sign a form or by attempting to revoke or
disclaim his signature on the form(s).

4. — Any request made to the Subpostmaster or his Assistant by the Police or any
other authority, or by a private person, for information which may be
confidential, or may concern matters connected with the duties of another

BRP PRP RPP RP RRP RP RRP RRP RRR RP eee eRe eRe eRe et ek ee

Section 16 July 2006_Divul f official inf ti
ly 2006_Divulgence of official information 2.116133
POL00422653
POL00422653

Subpostmaster, Franchisee, Operator or an employee of Post Office Ltd or
Royal Mail Group plc, or which is related to the Post Office® business or any
of its (potential) customers, should be referred immediately to Post Office Ltd.

CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

5.

Each of Royal Mail Group plc and Post Office Ltd has a duty to safeguard its
own interests and those of persons involved in Post Office® business in relation
to material that is published in the news media. The Public Relations
Department of each of Royal Mail Group plc and Post Office Ltd is primarily
responsible for:

r@) deciding whether Royal Mail Group ple and Post Office Ltd should enter
into public correspondence, and

(ii) ensuring fair and accurate presentation of facts about Royal Mail Group
plc and Post Office Ltd and its services,

and no other person is entitled to comment publicly on such matters. In
particular, untrue, ill-informed or reckless comment will be challenged by Post
Office Ltd (or Royal Mail Group plc, as the case may be). While recognising
the right of any individual to comment publicly on matters of general interest,
each of Royal Mail Group plc and Post Office Ltd expects Subpostmasters and
their Assistants who wish to comment publicly upon matters affecting any
member of the Royal Mail Group to exercise this right in a responsible manner.
Subpostmasters must ensure, when communicating with the press or offering
comment which may be published, or broadcast on radio or television, that their
comments do not go beyond the accepted bounds of propriety and are not likely
to cause embarrassment or to mislead the public. Post Office Ltd should be
asked for advice in cases of doubt.

A Subpostmaster wishing to communicate with the public news media should
be guided by the following: -

(a) there must be no unauthorised disclosure of official information
(see above);

(b) views and opinions expressed publicly must not bring Post Office Ltd or any
other Subpostmaster, Franchisee, Operator or Royal Mail Group ple or its
employees into disrepute; and

(c) a Subpostmaster offering unauthorised public comment must make it clear
that he is commenting in his private capacity and not on behalf of Post Office
Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc.

A Senior Representative (as defined in the national agreement on facilities for
recognised unions) may wish from time to time to represent the view of the
National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, particularly on matters affecting his
Branch/Committee/Federation. In doing so he must indicate his position as a
Federation spokesman and give his own name.

Sectic ..
ection 16 July 2006_Divulgence of official information

2.16/34
8. _ Particular care is necessary when offering spontaneous comment to press or
broadcasting reporters or interviewers.

PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

9. No Subpostmaster may, without the permission of Post Office Ltd, use
information derived from official records or experience for the purpose of
publishing any document, book, play or article, broadcasting on radio or
television, producing or exhibiting a film or photographs, giving a talk or
lecture or taking part in a public discussion.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC
10. A Subpostmaster should not, without the permission of Post Office Ltd, write to

or interview members of the public on Post Office® matters other than for the
purpose of correcting an error committed at his own sub Post Office® branch.

OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
11. No Subpostmaster may, without permission, make an official document or a

letter from the public, or any other document which may come into his hands
officially, the subject of legal proceedings.

USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE
PURPOSES

12. No Subpostmaster may use his position to further his private interests, or act in

any way which might give rise to the suspicion that he has used, for private
purposes, information available to him in his capacity as Subpostmaster.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

13. A Subpostmaster must report to Post Office Ltd any case in which there appears
to have been a breach of the above rules by anyone employed by him on Post
Office® duties at the sub Post Office® branch.

(APPENDICES 1-3 FOLLOW)

Section 16 July 2006_Divulgence of official information

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/35,
4
is

POL00422653
POL00422653

SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 1

FORM P13
PERSONAL DECLARATION TO ROYAL MAIL GROUP (1.E. ROYAL

MAIL GROUP PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, INCLUDING
POST OFFICE LTD)

ROYAL MAIL GROUP'S OBLIGATIONS

Royal Mail Group must ensure that letters, parcels and all other communications or
items entrusted to it are delivered as addressed promptly and safely, and that the
information in them reaches no one not entitled to it.

To help Royal Mail Group provide this essential service to the community, there are
important legal requirements which you must comply with. It is important for you to
be aware of and understand those provisions, not only for your own sake but also in
order that you should not, through any fault or omission on your part, enable or tempt
others to break them.

SAFETY OF POSTAL PACKET

It is a criminal offence to STEAL, DESTROY or DAMAGE a letter, parcel, mailbag
or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post. It is also an offence to
OPEN or DELAY (without proper authority and reasonable excuse) a letter, parcel,
mailbag, or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post.

Persons suspected of criminal offences will be subject to investigation which may
lead to prosecution in the Criminal Courts. Heavy penalties, including terms of
imprisonment, are provided for such offences.

Other misconduct which endangers the safety of a mailbag or postal packet may lead
to termination of employment or engagement or contract with Royal Mail Group.

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

You shall neither whilst employed or contractually bound by Royal Mail Group or
engaged in Royal Mail Group’s Business, nor after that employment or engagement
ceases, disclose to any other person, firm or company, or publish or broadcast or use
for your own benefit or for the benefit of a third party, any confidential information
relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of Royal Mail
Group or its business partners, except as previously authorised in writing by of Royal
Mail Group. Any unauthorised disclosure may amount to a criminal offence.

D2.1/6/36

I
APPENDIX 1 - FORM P13 (continued)
OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT

A person may be entrusted with information which is covered by the Official Secrets
Act 1989 whilst engaged on business for the Royal Mail Group.

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is a criminal offence for a Government
contractor (which means any person or body who is employed in the provision of
goods or services for the Crown) including any employee of a Government
contractor, to: -

e disclose unlawfully any information obtained as a result of such
work without authorisation, and

e fail to safeguard or improperly retain or provide access to
documents or articles containing information which it would be
an offence under the Act to disclose.

The above conditions apply even when work with Royal Mail Group ends.

DATA PROTECTION ACT

Any person who handles information about identifiable living people whether
processed electronically or manually may also commit an offence under the Data
Protection Act 1998 if he/she improperly obtains, holds, uses or discloses any such
information.

YOU SHOULD READ THIS DOCUMENT CAREFULLY AND THEN SIGN
YOUR NAME TO THE DECLARATION BELOW.

I HAVE READ AND FULLY UNDERSTAND BOTH PAGES OF THIS
DOCUMENT AND HAVE RECEIVED A COPY TO RETAIN:

Full Name ............ccccesseeseseesceeceeecceeeeensseeeeeecsessseseeeeeeseeeeeeeseeeeeenegs
(Block Letters)

Sigmature............ccceeeeeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeseeeee Date.......ccceecceeseeeeeeeeeeaes
In the presence of:

Signature...

Job Title/Position. ............seeecceeeeeesssseeeeeeeeeesesseeseteensenaeeaaeeenenes

NOTE - The person signing this form should sign with his ordinary signature in the
presence of a witness. _[[The Subpostmaster/Franchisee/Operator/Officer in
charge should witness the signature of persons employed at a sub or franchise
Post Office® branch]]

Retention Period: [ ]

POL00422653
POL00422653

ee Ee.

D2.1/6/37,
“a
POL00422653
POL00422653

SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 2

SUMMARY OF EXTRACTS FROM ACTS OF PARLIAMENT

1. Theft Act 1968/Criminal Damage Act 1971
The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft
Act 1968 or Criminal Damage Act 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for
such offences are liable under the relevant sections of those Acts to
imprisonment.

2. POSTAL SERVICES ACT 2000
Section 83 - Interference with the mail
Any person engaged in the business of a postal operator commits an offence if
contrary to his duty and without reasonable excuse he intentionally delays or
opens a postal packet in the course of its transmission by post, or intentionally
opens a mailbag. Persons convicted on indictment shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine, or both.

Section 125(1)
Postal packet means a letter, parcel, packet or other article transmissible by post.

Schedule 7 Unauthorised Disclosure of Information

Any person who makes an unauthorised disclosure of information obtained.
whilst dealing with work of a universal service provider, which relates to the
affairs of an individual or a particular business commits a criminal offence.

D2.1/6/38
POL00422653
POL00422653

SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 3 FORM P301

NON-DISCLOSURE STATEMENT - OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT AND CONFIDENTIAL,
INFORMATION (To be signed by all persons ceasing to be employed or contractually
bound by or engaged in the Royal Mail Groups Business (ie Royal Mail Group ple and its
associated companies including Post Office Ltd); and by other persons on ceasing to have
access to secret information)

My attention has been drawn to:-

1, the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 (the “Act”) and that under the Act it is a
criminal offence for a Government contractor (which means any person or body who is
employed in the provision of goods or services for the Crown) including any employee
or agent of a Government contractor, to:

¢ disclose unlawfully any information obtained as a result of such work
without authorisation, and

e — fail to safeguard or improperly retain or provide access to documents or
articles containing information which it would be an offence under the Act to
disclose.

Iam fully aware that serious consequences may follow any breach of these provisions.

2. the fact that I must not disclose to any other person, firm or company, or publish or
broadcast or use for my own benefit any confidential and/or commercial information
relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of the Royal Mail
Group, or information obtained whilst engaged in Royal Mail Group’s business except
as previously authorised in writing by the Royal Mail Group. Any unauthorised
disclosure may amount to a criminal offence.

1 understand that the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 and requirements regarding
confidential information may apply to me after my appointment has ceased;

Thereby declare that 1 have surrendered any equipment and any document including any
electronic document and back-up disc made or acquired by me owing to my official position,
save such as I have Royal Mail Group’s written authority to retain.

D2.1/6/39
POL00422653
POL00422653

CONTENTS
1. SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT AND STATUS 1
1.1, CONTRACT 1
1.2. PO RULES & POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS 3
1.3... CONTRACT - CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS 4
1.4, REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER 4
2. REMUNERATION 5
2.1. GENERAL 5
2.2, I FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT 5
2.3... COMMERCIAL BRANCHES AND SMALL BRANCHES 5
2.4. SEASONAL SUBPOSTOFFICE BRANCHES 6
2.5. SUBPOSTMASTERS PERSONAL BUSINESS 6
2.6. PROHIBITIONS 6
2.7. QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION 6
3. SUBPOSTMASTERS’ ABSENCE FROM OFFICE 15
3.1. GENERAL 15
4. ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY - HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE 16
4.1. CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT 17
4.2, PREPERATION OF CASH ACCOUNTS 19
5. ABSENCE-TO ATTEND TERRITORIAL, FORCES RESERVE, ETC, TRAINING 20
5.1. ARMY 20
5.2. ROYAL NAVY 21
5.3. ROYAL AIR FORCE 21
6. ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE 22
7. SUBPOSTMASTERS’ SICK ABSENCE SCHEME-SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE 23
7.1. CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS 23
7.2, PERIODS OF SICK ABSENCE OF LESS THAN 3 WEEKS 25
3. STATUTORY SICK PAY SCHEME 26
8.1. INTRODUCTION 26
8.2. GENERAL 26
8.3, EXCLUSIONS 27
8.4. QUALIFYING CONDITIONS 27
8.5. I NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS 31
8.6, EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS 31
8.7. END OF ENTITLEMENT TO STATUTORY SICK PAY 32
8.8. I RULES OF PAYMENT 32
8.9. DUAL EMPLOYMENT 32
8.10. SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION SCHEME 32

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/40,
POL00422653

POL00422653
$$$
9. RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT 33 w
9.1. RESIGNATION 33,
9.2. RETIREMENT 33 »
10. NATIONAL INSURANCE 4
10.1. CLASSIFICATION 34 Z
10.2. PERSONS TAKING UP APPOINTMENT AS A SUBPOSTMASTER 34
10.3. CONTRACTING OUT 35 =
10.4. CONTRIBUTIONS 38
10.5. MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS 36 Zz
10.6. NON LIABLE SUBPOSTMASTERS 36
10.7. ARREARS OF REMUNERATION 37 =
10.8. DEATH OF SUBPOSTMASTERS 37
109. HOLIDAY AND SICK ABSENCE PAYMENTS 37
10.10. SICKNESS BENEFITS 37 2
10.11. SUBPOSTMASTERS WITH MORE THAN ONE EMPLOYMENT 37
10.12. SUBPOSTMASTERS SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT REINSTATEMENT 38 4
10.13. CHANGES IN NATIONAL INSURANCE STATUS 38
1014. DEFERMENT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE 39 Ez
40.15. RESIGNATION/TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT 39
10.16. MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS 39 E
10.17. CANCELLATION OF ELECTION TO PAY AT REDUCED RATE 39
10.18. ACTUAL EXPENSES INCURRED 39 E
11. INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINAL ATTACK 40
11.1. REPORTS 40 E
11.2. POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD PERSONNEL CRIMINAL INJURY COMPENSATION SCHEME 40
11.3. EXCLUSIONS 41 —E
11.4. CONDITIONS 41
11.5. CLAIMS PROCEDURE 2 E
11.6. EVIDENCE a
12, RESPONSIBILITY FOR POST OFFICE STOCK AND CASH. "7 =
12.1. CREDIT STOCK OF STAMPS ETC. a7 E
12.2. CASH BALANCE 47
123. ACCOUNTS g
124. SECURITY OF CASH, STAMPS ETC. 48 —
12.5. GAINS 49
126. THEFT OR BURGLARY 49 E
127. MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK 49
12.8. RELIEF 50 E
13. PREMISES 53 gE
13.11. TENANCY 53
13.2. ALTERATIONS TO SUB-OFFICE PREMISES, ACCOMMODATION 54 E
13.3. NOTICES 54
13.4, RESITING OF POST OFFICE SECURITY EQUIPMENT 54 cg
13.5. RESIDENCE 55
13.6. MAILWORK OFFICES 56
13.7. ADVERTISEMENTS 56 Ez
14. HOURS OF BUSINESS 58 E
14.1. INTRODUCTION 58
142. STANDARD COUNTER HOURS OF SERVICE 58 E
14.3. LUNCH TIME AND HALF DAY CLOSURE (MONDAY TO FRIDAY) 58
14.4. EXTENDED HOURS 59 E
14.5. SUSPENSION OF MID-WEEK HALF-DAY CLOSING DURING THE CHRISTMAS AND
NEW YEAR 59 E
14.6. LOCAL HOLIDAYS AND TUESDAYS AFTER BANK HOLIDAYS 59
14.7. ADVERTISING OF HOLIDAYS 59 :
14.8, PAYMENT FOR THOSE PERIODS OUTSIDE THOSE MENTIONED IN a
PARAGRAPH 2 ABOVE - NON MAILWORK OFFICES 60 E
15. ASSISTANTS 61 -
g
x
ii Issue
September 1994

&
©Copyright reserved
a

02.16/41
POL00422653
POL00422653

15.1. GENERAL a
15.2. ASSISTANTS’ CONDITIONS OF SERVICE a

GE 6
1 SUITABILITY OF APPLICANTS - REFERENCES &
15.5. SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANT ACCUSED OR SUSPECTED OF DISHONESTY ETC.
45.6. UNSUITABLE PERSONS
187, OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK

228

16. DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE
‘AND INTERVIEWS

46.1. DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

16.2. PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

46.3. CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

16.4. PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

16.5. CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC

16.6. OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

16.7. USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES
16.8. BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

BSSIIRAAG

17. SUBPOSTMASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES

17.1. “PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES”

17.2. BETTING

17.3. LICENSED PREMISES

17.4. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

17.5. USE OF THE NAME “POST OFFICE”

17.6. CANVASSING

17.7. EMPLOYMENT IN THE POST OFFICE OR THE CIVIL SERVICE
17.8. BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

17.9. USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINESS

SSSSyssgaa

18. NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES: APPEALS PROCEDURE 81
18.1. ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES. 81
18.2. REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS 81
18.3. APPEALS 82
18.4. APPROACHES TO PERSONS OUTSIDE THE POST OFFICE 82

19. OFFENCES: SUSPENSION

19.1. ARREST

19.2. IMMORALITY

19.3, SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE

19.4. CRIMINAL CONDUCT

19.5. INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES
19.6. THEFTS BY STRANGERS

19.7. FAILURE TO REPORT DISHONESTY

19.8. ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE POST OFFICE INVESTIGATION DIVISION
19.9. FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS
19.10. SEARCHES

SRRRRLLSSSS

20. INFECTIOUS (INCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES

S

21. TELEPHONE FACILITIES AT SCALE PAYMENT SUB-POST OFFICES
21.1. PROVISION OF TELEPHONE FACILITIES

21.2. REIMBURSEMENT

21.3. RENTAL CHARGES

21.4. CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE

21.5. SUPPLEMENTARY ALLOWANCE

21.6. EMERGENCY REPAIRS

21.7. REIMBURSEMENT OF VAT CHARGES

22. QUALITY STANDARDS

22.1. WAITING TIME

22.2. TRANSACTIONS

22.3. QUALITY STANDARDS

22.4. SUBPOSTMASTER ERRORS: MAXIMUM PENALTIES

23.

RRGER VSSERSSE

REDEMPTION OF TELEPHONE, TELEVISION, MOTOR VEHICLE AND OTHER SAVINGS STAMPS 97

iii Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

2.1/6/42
POL00422653
POL00422653

24, MAILWORK 98
24.1, GENERAL 98
24.2. I ACCOMMODATION AND FITTINGS 98
24.3. ATTENDANCE 99
24.4, ACCESS TO PREMISES 99
24.5. POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS 100
24.6. CHANGES TO FACILITIES 100
24.7. REMUNERATION 100
24.8, I WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK 100
24.9, CHANGES IN CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 100
ACCOMMODATION SPECIFICATION 101-103
SUBPOSTMASTER SPECIFICATION 104-108
ROYAL MAIL SPECIFICATION 109-112
PAYMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK 113
MAILWORK INDEX 114
25. INDEX 115

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

= B EB BBE BBR RRR RRB RRPR RR RRR RRR RRR RR RRR

D2.1/6/43
POL00422653

POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 1

SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT AND STATUS

CONTRACT

1. The contract is a contract for services and consequently the Subpostmaster is an agent
and not an employee of Post Office Counters Ltd.

2. All references to Subpostmasters are to be construed as including Subpostmistresses
unless otherwise stated or implied from the context.

3. The Subpostmaster must provide and maintain, at his own expense, reasonable office
accommodation required by Post Office Counters Ltd, and pay also at his own
expense, any assistants he may need to carry on Post Office Counters business.

4, The hours of attendance (liable to variation) are:-

to to
to to on Sundays
to to
to to on Bank Holidays
to on week days to
to on Public Holidays
to on days, except when registered items or parcels are on
hand for despatch, when it may be necessary to attend at
PM.

5. The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the sub-office personally but he is
required, whether he is there or not, to accept full responsibility for the proper
running of his sub-office and the efficient provision of those Post Office services which
are required to be provided there. Retention of the appointment as Subpostmaster is
dependent on the sub-office being well managed and the work performed properly to
the satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd.

1 Issue
September 1994
‘©Copyright reserved

2.16/44
10.

11.

12.

The Subpostmaster is informed at the time of his appointment of the classes of
business he is required to provide. He must also undertake, if called upon to do so
later, any other class of business not required at the time of his appointment but which
Post Office Counters Ltd may subsequently and reasonably require him to do, except
that Post Office Counters Ltd may not require him to undertake Mailwork where the
Subpostmaster did not undertake to do so as part of the terms of his appointment.

If Post Office Counters Ltd alters the services to be provided or withdraws a service
the Subpostmaster has no claim to compensation for any disappointment which may
result from the change.

The terms of the appointment of Subpostmaster do not entitle the holder to be paid

sick or annual leave, pension or to compensation for loss of office.

If on resignation of his appointment the Subpostmaster disposes of his private
business and/or premises in which the sub-office is situated, the person acquiring the
private business and/or the premises or exchanging contracts in connection with the
purchase of the private business and/or premises will not be entitled to preferential
consideration for appointment as Subpostmaster.

Should the Subpostmaster desire to resign his office he must give three calendar
months notice in writing failing which he shall be liable to bear any expense incurred
by Post Office Counters Ltd in consequence. The Agreement may be determined by
Post Office Counters Ltd at any time in case of Breach of Condition by him, or non-
performance of his obligation or non-provision of Post Office Services, but otherwise
may be determined by Post Office Counters Ltd on not less than three months notice.

The Subpostmaster will display a vacancy notice in the Sub-Post Office window at the
time of his resignation if so required by the Regional General Manager.

The Subpostmasters’ initial remuneration will be in accordance with the official figures
of business found to be warranted at the last revision.

2 Issue
September 1994
©Copyrightreserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

02.1/6/45_
Fe ee a I a ca os a ne ee ee

so

-=-- =

13.

14.

15.

16.

17.

POL00422653

POL00422653

PO RULES & POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS

SECTIONS 1-23 contain the general terms of a Subpostmasters’ appointment. Post
Office Counters Ltd issues the Subpostmaster with rules and Postal Instructions which
deal with the various classes of Post Office Business to be transacted at his sub-office.

The rules provided for the instruction and guidance of Subpostmasters must be kept
up to date. They must be carefully studied and applied. No breach of rules will be
excused on the grounds of ignorance.

Operational rules are intended for the instruction an guidance of both the
Subpostmaster and the staff which he employs at his sub-office. The Subpostmaster
must ensure that his Sub-Office Assistants carry out their duties in accordance with
the rules and instructions affecting their respective duties.

Certain Postal Instructions are supplied to Mailwork offices for the use of the postmen
employed there and should be kept in a position where they are readily available for
reference. These particular instructions and rules do not apply to Subpostmasters.

Duties - The principal duties at present required have been marked on the following
list:-

Sale of Postage Stamps. Filling and clearing of Stamp-Selling Machines. Treatment of
Postal Packets, including Overseas Parcels, Despatch and receipt of Mails.

Business connected with:

Postal Orders Telephone Accounts
Pension Allowances Telephone Saving Stamps
Saving Certificates : National Insurance
Savings Bank, Government Stock and Annuities Premium Savings Bonds
Television Licences Local Taxation Licences
Television Licence Savings Stamps Girobank

Motor Vehicle Licence Saving Stamps Community Charge.

3 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/46

I
POL00422653

POL00422653
CONTRACT - CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS €
18. Changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which
are agreed with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, will appear from time to &
time in Counter News or by amendment to the Contract. Such changes and =e
instructions are deemed to form part of the Subpostmaster’s contract. 4
&
REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER
&
19. Allinstructions received from the Regional General Manager should be carried out as e&
promptly as possible. Ee
END =
&
&
&
&
&
&
&
E
Ee
3
Ee
&
&
&
5
B
&
i=]
i=]
4 Issue r=
September 1994 a
©Copyright reserved 4

D2.116/47
Ce

xs =~

POL00422653
POL00422653

SUBPOSTMASTER’S CONTRACT VARIATION OCT 2004

Post Office Ltd

Section 2 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract

REMUNERATION
GENERAL

1. A Subpostmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is
transacted at his sub Post Office® branch. All remuneration is in respect of
the provision of Post Office® services.

FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT

2. Remuneration is paid monthly, by bank credit transfer, during the
period of the Subpostmaster’s appointment, in accordance with the provisions
of the remuneration booklets referred to below.

COMMERCIAL BRANCHES AND SMALL BRANCHES

3.1. The method of calculating a Subpostmaster’s remuneration will depend
on whether his sub Post Office® branch is designated by Post Office Ltd from
time to time as either a Commercial Post Office® branch or a Small Post
Office® branch in accordance with the provisions of the remuneration
booklets issued by Post Office Ltd from time to time for each category of
branch.

3.2 The remuneration system applicable to Subpostmasters of each
category of branch are set out in these remuneration booklets. The
remuneration booklets also contain the rates of remuneration applicable to
each category of branch.

3.3 Post Office Ltd may revise the remuneration rates set out in the
remuneration booklets (in whole or in part) from time to time following
[consultation with the National Federation of Subpostmasters. Any such
revisions will be communicated to Subpostmasters.

3.4 Post Office Ltd may also revise other parts of the remuneration
booklets (including the definitions of Commercial and Small Post Office®
branches and the remuneration system applicable to them) from time to time,
following negotiation with the National Federation of Subpostmasters. Any
Such revisions will be communicated to Subpostmasters. Where appropriate,
revised versions of the booklets will be distributed to Subpostmasters.

D2.1/6/48
POL00422653

POL00422653

3.5. The remuneration booklets (and any revisions to them) form part of the
Subpostmaster’s Contract.

SEASONAL SUB POST OFFICE ® BRANCHES

4. Where a sub Post Office® branch is regularly open for part of the year
only, remuneration will be paid for the period of opening only.

SUBPOSTMASTER’S PERSONAL BUSINESS

5. Full credit is normally allowed for the personal Post Office® business of
a Subpostmaster and members of his household, but Post Office Ltd reserves
the right to withhold credit for part of such business at its discretion.

PROHIBITIONS

6. The delivery of stamps or postal orders or other items of business at
the premises of persons, firms or companies is forbidden. Remuneration may
be withheld in respect of any business obtained by a Subpostmaster in breach
of this clause.

QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION
7 If a Subpostmaster considers that the provisions of this Section have

not been correctly applied in the case of his branch he should contact the
People and Organisation Service Centre on

END

paved
a

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 3

SUBPOSTMASTERS’ ABSENCE FROM OFFICE

GENERAL

A Subpostmaster, under the terms of his contract, is not obliged to render personal
service and is therefore free to absent himself from the office, provided he makes

suitable arrangements for the conduct of the office during his absence.

He should notify the Regional General Manager on form P2593 when he will be away

for a period of more than 3 days and give the name of the person substituting for him.

A Subpostmaster’s responsibility for the proper conduct of the office, or for any losses
occurring during his absence, is in no way diminished by his absence from the Sub-

Office. He must make proper provision, at his own expense, for the conduct of the

office while he is away, but assistance towards the cost of his own substitution is

provided, in respect of certain absences, under the terms outlined in other relative

sections listed below:-

SECTION 4 Absence on holiday
SECTIONS Absence on Territorial Training
SECTION 6 Absence for Jury Service
SECTION7 _ Sick Absence Scheme
END
15 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/50
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 4

ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY - HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

A Subpostmaster is not entitled to annual leave as such, but subject to the following
conditions he may claim for reimbursement of the necessary cost of his substitution
when taking a holiday. To qualify for reimbursement, the Subpostmaster must be
able to certify that he renders on overage not less than 18 hours personal services each

week.

The reimbursement of the costs of substitution is paid as Holiday Substitution
Allowance and the maxima payable are published annually in Counter News. The
sum reimbursable is the net additional cost necessarily incurred by the
Subpostmaster in providing during his own absence for the Post Office duties which

he nonnally performs.

To assist Subpostmasters to overcome the difficulties sometimes experienced in
obtaining suitable substitutes in a particular year the holiday substitution allowance
extends over a period of 2 years. The holiday periods for which the costs of

substitution are payable are:-

For a Subpostmaster with less than 10 years service; a total not exceeding 7 weeks in a
period of 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd year; 7 weeks for this purpose

consist of 42 weekdays plus not more than 7 associated Sundays.

For a Subpostmaster with 10 years or more aggregated service; a total not exceeding 8
weeks ina period of 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd year; 8 weeks for this

purpose consists of 48 weekdays plus not more than 8 associated Sundays.

NOTE: Subject to the above limits on holiday periods, Subpostmasters may claim

reimbursement of substitution costs for absences of less than 3 days, provided that

claims are aggregated and made quarterly.

16 Issue
September 1994

“©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

oo i ee ee

02.16/51)
ee ee ee ee ee ee

Proportionate adjustments will be made to the period for which reimbursement can be
claimed when a Subpostmaster qualifies for the higher allowance during the 2 year

cycle,

Subject to the limits in paragraphs 3,4 & 5, a Subpostmaster is free to take up to the
maximum of the period for which he may claim holiday substitution allowance at any
time during the 2 year cycle provided that he makes suitable arrangements for the

conduct of the office during his absence. A further cycle will recur in every odd year.

The Subpostmaster must do his best to find his own substitute and make all necessary
arrangements for his absence, which should be notified to the Regional General
Manager on form P2593. In cases of difficulty the Regional General Manager or the
Secretary of the local branch of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters may be
able to give the names and addresses of local people known to be willing to offer their
services as holiday relief’s to Subpostmasters. Responsibility for concluding

arrangements with such people remains with the Subpostmaster concerned.

CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT

The Subpostmaster must submit a formal claim for reimbursement of the holiday
substitution allowance on forms P2340 and P2340(A) (obtainable from the Regional
General Manager) within three months of the end of the period of substitution to
which the claim relates, except in the cases as in paragraph 10 where claims should be

submitted quarterly. He must certify:-

9.1 that he has taken a holiday both from the Sub Post Office and from his private

business during the whole period covered by the claim; and

9.2 that in respect of the services he provided as subpostmaster, he has actually and
necessarily incurred additional expenditure equating to the amount claimed, in
respect of a paid substitute or substitutes, payment will not be made in respect
of substitution by family members who work in the Sub-Post Office unless their

involvement is occasional or, if regular, minimal.

17 Issue
September 1994

“Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/52
10.

11.

12.

14.

Claims for refundment of substitution costs for absences of less than 3 days (see Note
at paragraph 5) should be submitted on form P2340 and P2340(A) at the quarter end,
showing the separate dates of absence and the costs of substitution incurred.

In addition to the arrangement quoted above, with effect from January 1990 all claims
for reimbursement of the cost of employing a substitute for periods longer than 2 days
in the event of holiday or sickness, should be submitted for payment to the Regional

Office no later than six months following the date the claim is made.

Where a Subpostmaster is employed by the Post Office either on a full or part-time
basis, e.g. Auxiliary Postman, it is essential, in view of the terms of the certificate
required as a condition of refundment of the cost of his substitution as Subpostmaster,
that he should be absent from all Post Office work during his holiday as

Subpostmaster.

A Subpostmaster who holds more than one sub-office appointment and who satisfies
the general conditions entitling him to claim reimbursement must also satisfy the
further condition that he is absent from all his sub-offices at the same time, i.e.
irrespective of the number of sub-office appointments held, he shall only be entitled to

claim reimbursement for a total period of:-

12.1 not more than 7 weeks in the 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd year, if

hie has less than 10 years service;

12.2. not more than 8 weeks in the 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd year, if

he has 10 years or more aggregated service.
Only one claim for reimbursement is admissible and not one claim per office held.

Reimbursement of the cost of annual holiday warranted under the foregoing rules will
be suitable restricted in respect of a Subpostmaster’s first and last 2 years of
appointment to amounts proportionate to the actual periods of appointment during

those years; any overpayments which may thus occur will be recovered subsequently.

18 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

OOO ee ee ee ee I

2.4/1

gz
a

3
4.2.PREPARATION OF CASH ACCOUNTS DURING ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY

15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

A Subpostmaster is allowed to dispense with the preparation of cash accounts on up
to 3 occasions in each accounting/ financial year during his own absence on holiday.
On one occasion a cash account may cover up to 3 weeks transactions, and on two
additional occasions 2 weeks transactions. Alternatively, on two occasions a cash
account may cover up to 3 weeks transactions. In no circumstances may two

occasions be consecutive.

Applications to dispense with cash accounts should be made on form P2639, to
Regional General Managers at least 2 weeks before the date of absence, but they can
only be allowed when the 2 or 3 weeks involved fall within the same accounting

period. (The accounting periods are shown in front of the cash book).

“Despatch of Accounts” instructions to cover the period concerned will be supplied

by FC4.3/CAG Chesterfield and for Scotland, Scottish Accounting Office AD1.

Te will not be possible to dispense with 2 consecutive cash accounts when one or both
of them, or the next account that would be due, is for longer than a normal cash
account week, e.g. Christmas and New Year. However, applications to dispense with

one account at such times will be considered.

Where a cash account is prepared during the Subpostmaster’s absence on holiday and
is signed by a substitute on his behalf, a note to this effect should be made on the

Account.

END

19 Issue
September 1994

ECopyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/54
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 5

ABSENCE - TO ATTEND TERRITORIAL, FORCES RESERVE, ETC., TRAINING

1. A Subpostmaster who renders an average not less than 18 hours personal services
each week may be reimbursed with the cost of providing a substitute, up to the
maximum of the appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance in force, for an
additional period of absence of up to 12 working days and 2 associated Sundays in

each year, to attend for training at a Territorial, etc., camp.

2. Claims should be made on form P2340 and P2340(A) on which the Subpostmaster
must certify that he has spent the whole period covered by the claim in full-time

training with the force concerned and that he has actually and necessarily incurred
relating to the payment of Holiday Substitution Allowance apply (see Section 4).

3. A Subpostmaster who enlists for whole time service in HM Forces is required to

resign his appointment.

4. — Territorial, etc. forces which are recognised for the purposes of reimbursement of

additional substitution costs are:-

ARMY

Regular Army Reserve of Officers
Army Reserve - Section D
Territorial Army

€
ld
I
=
=
ze
z&
=
I =
additional expenditure to the amount claimed. In all other aspects, the conditions :
Ee
=
=
y=
=
=
[=
&

20 Issue
September 1994 "
‘@Copyright reserved
D2.1/6/85
ee ee ee eee eee ee eee ee ee

5.2.ROYAL NAVY

Royal Navy Reserve

Royal Naval Auxiliary Services

Royal Naval Retired and Emergency List Officers
Royal Marines Reserve

Royal Fleet Reserve

Women’s Royal and Naval Reserve

Queen Alexandra’s Royal Naval Nursing Services Reserve.

ROYAL AIR FORCE

Royal Auxiliary Air Force

Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve
Royal Air Force Reserve of Officers
Royal Air Force Reserve - Class E
Princess Mary’s Nursing Service Reserve

Royal Observer Corps

END

21

Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/56
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 6

ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

A Subpostmaster who receives a summons to serve on a jury should notify his
Regional General Manager immediately, and should inform him of the arrangements
which he proposes to make for the conduct of the work of the sub-office in his

absence.

Where exceptionally the Subpostmaster is unable to find a substitute and the Sub-
Office is temporarily closed on account of the absence of the Subpostmaster on jury

service, the scale payment for the period of the closure will be withheld.

Subpostmasters attending for jury service should claim from the court any allowances
for which they are eligible in respect of travelling and subsistence and, where
appropriate, compensation for loss of remuneration. If a Subpostmaster is in need of
advice of the allowances to which he will be entitled, he should seek it from the

official responsible for the issue of the summons.

END
22 Issue
September 1994
Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/57
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 7

SUBPOSTMASTER’S SICK ABSENCE SCHEME - SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE

A Subpostmaster is not required to give personal service and is not entitled to sick
leave as such. However, subject to certain conditions and limitations described
below, he is entitled to claim sick absence substitution allowance, in respect of the
costs of substitution necessarily incurred, when he is absent from his sub-office

through illness.

CONDITIONS AND LIMITATIONS

With the exception of women over 65 and men over 70 years of age, all
Subpostmasters who give 18 hours or more personal service a week, who are absent
from their sub-office through illness, are eligible to claim Sick Absence Substitution
Allowance. The maxima rates payable are published from time to time in Counter
News. The allowance is payable subject to, and in accordance with, the following

conditions:

The allowance will be payable when the period of any continuous sick absence
amounts to three weeks (21 days including Sundays) or more and it will be paid

retrospectively for all but the first week (seven days including Sunday) of absence.

Payment of the allowance will be limited to an aggregated period of 13 weeks (91 days
including not more than 13 associated Sundays) in any consecutive period of 12

months.

Where a Subpostmaster is incapacitated by an accident or illness which results, or is
likely to result, in a continuous absence beyond 13 weeks, Regional General Managers
may authorise payment of the allowance to be extended up to a maximum period of
26 weeks (182 days including not more than 26 associated Sundays) in any one period
of 12 months. Where a Subpostmaster has already received up to 12 weeks of the Sick
Absence Substitution Allowance entitlement in the previous 12 months he may,
because of an absence resulting from an extended illness, be entitled to an allowance

up to a maximum of 26 weeks in any one period of 12 months.

23 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

rr

2.16/58
POL00422653
POL00422653

Where a Subpostmaster’s period of reimbursement of sick absence substitution costs
is extended beyond 13 continuous weeks, such extension will be reviewed
periodically. Under no circumstances will a Subpostmaster be allowed to aggregate

separate periods of sick absence beyond 13 weeks in any one period of 12 months.

The maximum allowance payable will be the total amount calculated by applying the
Subpostmaster’s appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance rate for the period for
which sick absence allowance is payable, or the actual additional costs of substitution

incurred for the same period, whichever is less.

The maximum amount of the allowance for the period of absence for which an
allowance is payable will be abated, where applicable, by the statutory national
insurance sickness benefit or maternity allowance and earnings related supplement
received by the claimant in respect of the same period. Details of these are recorded
on DSS forms BS12 and BF168 which should accompany the Subpostmaster’s claim for
the substitution allowance (see paragraph 10). Where however, a Subpostmistress
receives a NHS Maternity Grant, the substitution allowance should not be reduced by

the amount of that grant,

(NOTE: Statutory national insurance sickness benefit means that benefit which is
payable to a person otherwise than in respect of another person who is a child or an
adult dependent.) Where a Subpostmaster is not eligible for DSS benefits, a medical

certificate should accompany the claim for payment of the substitution allowance.

Subpostmasters holding more than one Sub-Office appointment will be entitled to

claim the allowance in respect of only one appointment.

Any Subpostmaster who qualifies for the sick absence substitution allowance and can

produce evidence to show that substitution costs were incurred should submit a claim
to the Regional General Manager after he has been absent for three weeks. Thereafter

he should claim the allowance at the end of each subsequent period of absence of four
weeks (or at the end of the period of absence if that is reached earlier). Claim forms

will be supplied by the Regional General Manager on request.

24 Issue

September 1994

APAPA ARR FRR PPR RRP PRR RRR RRR

‘©Copyright reserved
2.1/6

a
POL00422653
POL00422653

PERIODS OF SICK ABSENCE OF LESS THAN 3 WEEKS

11. Where an eligible Subpostmaster as defined above is absent sick for a period of less
than three weeks, and does not qualify for payment of the sick absence substitution
allowance, he will be free to claim, in respect of any substitute for him, Holiday
Substitution Allowance for the period of absence up to the limit of any outstanding
balance of his HSA entitlement. Form P2340 and P2340(A) should be used by
Subpostmasters when making these claims. The amounts payable will not be the
subject to abatement of any national insurance sickness benefit received. Any period
of sick absence for which HSA (as distinct from Sick Absence Substitution Allowance)

is paid will count against HSA entitlement.

END
25 Issue
September 1994
Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/60
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 8

STATUTORY SICK PAY SCHEME

INTRODUCTION

1. Under the terms of the Social Security and Housing Benefits Act 1982 employers are
responsible for statutory sick pay arrangements in respect of their employees. An
employee is interpreted as including office holders who receive emoluments liable for
income tax under Schedule E. Subpostmasters come within this category and
consequently Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged to comply with the conditions of the
Act.

2. The use of the words “employee” and “employer” are used in the context of this
particular piece of legislation and do not in any way alter the Subpostmaster’s status

as an independent contractor.

GENERAL

3. Under the terms of the Scheme most Subpostmasters will not get State sickness benefit
for their first twenty eight weeks of sickness in each tax year. Instead they will get
Statutory Sick Pay, known as SSP, from Post Office Counters Ltd. SSP is paid at a flat
rate. There are 2 weekly rates and eligibility depends on an employee's average
earnings over a specified period. There are no allowances for dependants. SSP is

taxable and subject to NI contributions.

26 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

2.1/6)

ca

1
POL00422653
POL00422653

EXCLUSIONS

4 A Subpostmaster will not get statutory sick pay if he comes within one of the
following groups. If a Subpostmaster falls within one of these groups he should still

notify his Regional General Manager about his sickness.

A Subpostmaster reaches the end of his entitlement to SSP from Post Office Counters

when:

(a) Subpostmasters who already had twenty eight weeks of SSP from Post Office
Counters Ltd in a tax year in any one period of incapacity for work (referred to
as PIW)(linked or unlinked);

(b) his linked PIW with Post Office Counters Ltd has run for 3 years;
(©) _ she is pregnant and reaches the “disqualifying period”;

(d) _ his contract for service ends;

(e) Subpostmasters who fall sick in a country outside the EEC;

() he is no longer incapable of work, i.e. he returns to work or stops sending

certificates of incapacity;

(g) _ heis taken into legal custody.

QUALIFYING CONDITIONS

5. Statutory Sick Pay can only be paid for qualifying days. It has been agreed with the
National Federation of Sub-Postmasters that qualifying days for Subpostmasters will
be those days they are normally required to provide the services detailed in Section 1
of this contract. Where Subpostmasters are required to give services for only part of
the day, that day will count in full for statutory sick pay purposes. For the majority of
Subpostmasters there will be six qualifying days in each week (Monday to Saturday).
if a Subpostmaster is in doubt about which days are regarded as qualifying days he

should seek confirmation from his Regional General Manager.

27 Issue
September 1994
‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/62
The entitlement of a Subpostmaster to SSP, rests on 6 qualifying conditions, all of

which must be fulfilled.

(a)

)

©

(a)

(e)

The Subpostmaster must have notified his Regional General Manager of his

absence;
Days sickness must be days of incapacity;
The Subpostmaster must provide evidence of incapacity;

Period of incapacity for work (PIW) must be formed and PIW consist of 4 or
more consecutive days, including Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays,
when a Subpostmaster is incapacitated for work. It is immaterial for this
purpose whether or not the Subpostmaster would normally have worked on
those days. PIW’s which are separated by 8 weeks (56 calendar days) or less are
linked and count together as a single PIW;

When a Subpostmaster falls into one or more of the categories listed below he

will be excluded from receiving SSP;

(i) _ he is excluded from receiving SSP. A Subpostmaster who has been
excluded cannot return to SSP entitlement during the course of a PIW, nor
at the start of a PIW which links with a previous one during which he was

excluded even though he ceases to be a member of an excluded group.
(ii) Over State pension age;

A Subpostmaster who is over State pension age (65 for a man, 60 for a
woman) is exchided from SSP. However, if when a Subpostmaster
reaches State pension age he has a PIW which links with a previous one,
he will be entitled to SSP for as long as his PIW’s continue to link.

28 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

eo a a a oe

D2.1/6/63
=== = = = = eee er oS

-_-—— = =- = =

I

(ia)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

POL00422653
POL00422653

Short contract workers;

A Subpostmaster whose contract of employment is for a specified period
of 3 calendar months or less is excluded from SSP. However, if the
contract does not at first exceed 3 months, but a Subpostmaster works
past the time stated in the contract so that the total period worked
becomes more than 3 calendar months the employee becomes entitled to
SSP as soon as it is known that the total period will be more than 3

calendar months.

Low average earnings;

A Subpostmaster whose average earnings are less than the lower earnings
limit for NI contribution liability is not entitled to SSP. When one PIW
links with a previous one, the first day in the.earlier PIW is used for

calculating an employee's average earnings.

Recent State benefit entitlement;

A Subpostmaster who has received, or in some cases claimed but not
received, certain State benefits within the 8 weeks period before the first
day of a PIW is not entitled to SSP. The benefits are:

- Sickness Benefit;

- Invalidity Benefit;

- Severe Disablement Allowance;

- State Maternity Allowance (but not Statutory Maternity Pay);

- Unemployment Benefit, but only in very limited circumstances.

No work done;

A Subpostmaster how has done no work under a contract of employment
is not entitled to SSP under that contract. If he is a new employee and he
reports sick before he takes up duty, he is not entitled to SSP. However, if
he reports for work on his first day of service, but goes sick on the second,

he is entitled to SSP if he fulfils the other qualifying conditions.

29 Issue

September 1994

©Copyright reserved
D2.1/6/64
(viii)

(ix)

(xi)

(vii) Trade dispute;

If a Subpostmaster is participating in a stoppage of work due to a trade
dispute, he may be excluded from SSP.

Pregnancy;

There is a “disqualifying period” during which the Subpostmistress is not
entitled to SSP. The “disqualifying period” begins with the 11th week
before the expected week of confinement and runs for 18 weeks. This is
the same as the period for entitlement to state or statutory maternity pay
to which the Subpostmistress is entitled provided she fulfils the

appropriate conditions.
Already been due 28 weeks SSP from former employer(s);

A Subpostmaster is excluded from SSP if he gives his Regional General
Manager a leaver’s statement (SSP 1(L)) showing that he has been due 28

weeks SSP from his former employer(s) and the gap between the first day
of the PIW (with the new employer) and the last day of SSP shown on the

leaver’s statement is 8 weeks or less.
Abroad outside the EEC;

A Subpostmaster who is abroad outside the EEC at the start of a PIW is
not entitled to SSP. He is excluded even it the PIW links with a previous

one when he was in the UK.
Legal custody.

A Subpostmaster who is in legal custody on the first day of a PIW is not
entitled to SSP. “Legal custody” means that the person concerned is
detained, usually arrested and/or in prison. A person who is voluntarily
helping Police with their enquiries is not excluded. A Subpostmaster in
legal custody is not entitled to SSP even if his PIW links with a previous

one when he was not in legal custody.

30 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

ee I

D2.1/6/65
—— ee ee ee

POL00422653
POL00422653

() Days of incapacity to be a qualifying day.

If a Subpostmaster becomes incapable of work part way through a day, that day
cannot count as a qualifying day unless he has not commenced work on that

day.

NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS

A Subpostmaster or his representative must inform his Regional General Manger by
telephone of his incapacity for work on or before his first working day of sickness

irrespective of whether he is entitled to statutory sick pay.

Subpostmasters, including those nominated by limited companies, who hold more
than one appointment, must notify the appropriate Regional General Manager who is
responsible for the collection of primary National Insurance contributions in respect of

his appointments. (See section 10, paragraph 1)

If a Subpostmaster is late in giving notification of sickness, he should advise the
Regional General Manager of the reason for the delay. If the Regional General
Manager is not satisfied with the reason given for the delay, any period of sickness
prior to the date of notification will not count for the purposes of statutory sick pay. If
a Subpostmaster is not satisfied with the Regional General Manager's decision on this
matter he may apply to the Department of Social Security for a ruling. Ifa
Subpostmaster does not qualify for statutory sick pay, he will on notification of
sickness be sent a form SSP1 (E) by his Regional General Manager.

EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS

10.

nl.

Subpostmasters must provide Post Office Counters Ltd with evidence of incapacity
for work by means of either a doctor's medical certificate of by a self certificate if the
incapacity is less than eight days. A proforma to be used for self certification can be

obtained from the Regional General Manager.

Subpostmasters must notify their Regional General Manager when they cease to be

sick,

31 Issue
September 1994
‘©Copyrightreserved

D2.1/6/66
POL00422653
POL00422653

END OF ENTITLEMENT TO STATUTORY SICK PAY

12.

When a Subpostmaster has exhausted his entitlement to statutory sick pay he will be
sent a form SSP1(T), on which, if he is still sick, he can claim state sickness benefit

from the Department of Social Security.

RULES OF PAYMENT

13.

In accordance with the Act, Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged to abate any
remuneration due by the appropriate amount of statutory sick pay. The effect of this
will mean that for the first eight weeks of sickness, remuneration will be paid in full
and that statutory sick pay will be regarded as “notional”. Consequently although
statutory sick pay will be regarded as “notional” the total remuneration paid the
Subpostmaster will continue to attract income tax and National Insurance

contributions in full.

DUAL EMPLOYMENT

14.

If a Subpostmaster who is sick is also employed either by the Post Office (e.g. as an
Auxiliary Postman) or another employer, and provided National Insurance

contributions are paid separately for each employment and alll other conditions are
met, he must claim statutory sick pay in respect of both his Subpostmaster services

and other employment(s).

SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION SCHEME

15.

The provisions of this Scheme, which are set out in Section 5, remain except that no
claim will be entertained unless the Regional General Manager has been properly
notified of the Subpostmaster’s sickness. Claims for reimbursement for up to 28
weeks’ sick absence will not be subject to abatement in respect of Statutory Sick Pay.
Claims for reimbursement for a period of sickness which does not attract statutory

sick pay will continue to be subject to abatement.

END

32 Issue

September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/67
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 9

RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT

RESIGNATION

1. A Subpostmaster who wishes to resign his appointment must give 3 calendar month's
notice in writing. If he does not give such notice Post Office Counters Ltd may
require him to pay any expense which it incurs in providing temporary arrangements
to cater for the business which would normally be expected to be transacted at the

sub-office during any part of the 3 month notice period.

RETIREMENT

2. There is no specific age limit for the retirement of a Subpostmaster.

3. Unless indicated otherwise by the Regional General Manager, a vacancy will be

advertised at the existing sub-office premises.

4. — Subpostmasters at offices earning 125,050 units or more are required to make an

introductory payment to Post Office Counters Ltd as a condition of appointment.

END
33, Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

PVUUVUVEEEE RRR ee

D2.1/6/68

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 10

NATIONAL INSURANCE

CLASSIFICATION

For National Insurance purposes, a Subpostmaster is regarded as an office holder with
emoluments chargeable to Income Tax under Schedule E. As such, all Subpostmasters
are liable to make National Insurance contributions in accordance with the provisions

of Class 1.
Class 1 contributions comprise 2 parts:-

(a) _ the Primary contribution which is generally known as the employee's

contribution;

(b) the Secondary contribution which is generally known as the employer's

contribution.

PERSONS TAKING UP APPOINTMENT AS A SUBPOSTMASTER

All persons taking up an appointment as a Subpostmaster should supply the Regional
General Manager with their National Insurance number by means of a NI number
card, form P45 and/or P60 (see leaflet NI217) and also any current certificate of
Earner’s non/reduced rate liability that they have. Where for one reason or another a
new Subpostmaster does not supply a NI number the action outlined in the

Employer's Guide to National Insurance Contributions (NP15) will be followed.

34 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

AAR RE RP RRP RPP PPP BP eeeePeP ee eee eee ee ee

02.1/6/69_
CONTRACTING OUT

3, Under the Social Security Act 1975, pensions for retirement, widowhood and
invalidity consist of 2 parts:

(a) _ basic pension;

(b) and additional pension related to an employee's reckonable earnings between the
lower earnings limit and the upper earnings limit.

4. Anemployer may contract his employees out of that part of the State Scheme which
provides an additional pension if the Occupational Pensions Board is satisfied that his
occupational pensions scheme meets the conditions required by the Act. As
Subpostmasters are not employees of Post Office Counters Ltd they are ineligible to
belong to the Post Office Staff Superannuation Scheme and therefore are not
contracted out of the State Scheme.

CONTRIBUTIONS

i
, 5. DSS leaflet NP15 “Employer’s Guide to National Insurance Contributions” gives a
guide to the contribution arrangements.

6. Provided that earnings reach or exceed the lower earnings limit, a Subpostmaster will

be liable to pay primary contributions on all earnings up to the upper earnings limit

at:-

(a) the standard rate; or

(b) the reduced rate (see paragraph 8); or

(© is not liable for contributions because he/she is over pension age or has made

other arrangements (see paragraph 9).

35 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/70
POL00422653
POL00422653

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS

7. There is no longer a right to choose to pay reduced rate contributions. However, a
woman entitled to pay at the reduced rate for the 1977-78 tax year continues to be able

to do so for subsequent years unless:-
(a) _ she revokes her election;
(6) asa married woman her marriage ends in divorce or annulment;

(©) she becomes a widow and after the initial period becomes entitled to widow's

benefit;

(a) during 2 consecutive tax years which fall after 5 April 1978 she was neither

liable to pay a Class 1 contribution nor was self-employed.

DSS will provide a certificate authorising deductions of a Class 1 contributor’s
contribution at the reduced rate. As Post Office Counters Ltd will be held responsible
for any deficiencies in contribution, deductions will be made at the standard rate

unless the Subpostmistress produces a valid certificate.

NON LIABLE SUBPOSTMASTERS

8. No contributions are payable by men over 65 or women over 60 and in such
circumstances DSS will normally issue a certificate of age contribution. However, if
some other definite evidence is being held to show that a Subpostmaster has reached
age 65 (60 for a woman) his/her deductions may be ceased even though a certificate of

age exception has not been produced.

9. The Secondary contribution (see paragraph 2) is due at the same rate regardless of the

Subpostmaster’s rate of contribution or even where he is non liable.

36 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

BARRA RRP PPP PRR PRR RAO

2.1/6/71_.
ARREARS OF REMUNERATION

10. Arrears of remuneration resulting from a revision or other payments made to adjust
remuneration paid in an earlier month, will be treated as part of the total
remuneration in the month in which the payment is made, regardless of the period for
which they are proper to. This applies whether or not the additional payments are

made regularly.

11. Where arrears of remuneration are due to a former Subpostmaster national insurance

contributions will be calculated from the weekly contributions table published by DSS.

DEATH OF SUBPOSTMASTERS

12. Contributions are not payable on any remuneration that might be due toa

Subpostmaster's estate after his death.

HOLIDAY AND SICK ABSENCE PAYMENTS

13. Contributions are not due on any payments made under the holiday substitution or
Sick Absence Substitution schemes because all payments are made in respect of

specific costs incurred.

SICKNESS BENEFITS

14. NI Contributions continue to be payable when a Subpostmaster who is sick continues
to receive his scale payment. NI sickness/industrial injury benefits received are not

assessable for NI contribution.

SUBPOSTMASTERS WITH MORE THAN ONE EMPLOYMENT

15. Primary Class 1 contributions are normally payable in respect of each job including
other Sub-Office appointments for which earnings exceed the lower earnings limit,
unless a current form RD950 has been received from DSS. Even where a form RD950
is held, POCL is obliged to collect Secondary Class contributions.

37 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/72
SUBPOSTMASTERS SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT REINSTATEMENT

16. Any payment withheld during suspension and subsequently paid upon reinstatement

should be treated as part of the total remuneration in the earnings period in which it is

paid regardless of the periods to which it relates. The NI contribution rate current at

the time of payment should be applied.

CHANGES IN NATIONAL INSURANCE STATUS

17. _ In the event of a change or impending change in national insurance status, a

Subpostmaster should consult his local DSS office as soon as possible.

18. The following are regarded as changes in status:

(a) WOMEN:

Divorce
Annulment
Marriage
Widowhood
Re-marriage

Retirement age

(a) MEN:

Retirement age

In these circumstances the Subpostmistress must advise
DSS and Post Office Counters Ltd

See paragraph 8

Towards the beginning of the tax year in which a
woman reaches age 60 and again at the approach of the
60th birthday, a Subpostmistress will be asked to
consult DSS so that a certificate of age exception may be
issued if appropriate (see also paragraph 9).

At the approach of the 65th birthday the Subpostmaster
will be asked to consult DSS so that a certificate of age
exception may be issued if necessary (see also

paragraph 9).

38 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

1

ZBRRAA RRP RP RR RP RRP RP RP RRR RRR ROO oe i i oe

2.16/73
=~ — Re K— Ke Ke KK

DEFERMENT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE

19. Inall cases where a Subpostmaster seeks to enhance his retirement pension by a
deferment of NI retirement dale (normally the 60th birthday for women, the 65th
birthday for men) see DSS leaflet NI92 - or where he wishes to cancel his deferment,
the Subpostmaster should be asked to consult his local DSS office so that the necessary

arrangements can be made and certificates of age exception obtained.

RESIGNATION/TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT

20. When a Subpostmaster resigns or has his contract terminated the Guaranteed

Minimum Pension will be preserved by DSS.

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS.

21. There will be no Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for a married woman or a

widow who has retained the right to pay the reduced rate of NI contribution.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION TO PAY AT REDUCED RATE

22. Whena married woman or widow revokes her election to pay NI contributions at the
reduced rate the GMP will accrue only on the contributions she pays after revoking

her election.

ACTUAL EXPENSES INCURRED

23. Subpostmasters who are asked by their Regional General Manager to give details of
the expenditure which they incur in providing Post Office services should do so with
all haste. Such information will be restricted to Post Office Counters Ltd and
Department of Social Security.

39 Issue
September 1994

‘Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/74
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 11

INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINAL ATTACK

REPORTS

1. Ifa Subpostmaster or one of his Assistants is injured in an attempted robbery of Post
Office property a report should be made at once to the Regional General Manager
however slight these injuries may appear to be. In addition, in order that entitlement
to National Insurance (Industrial Injury) benefit may be preserved it is important that
the DSS should be informed without delay.,

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD PERSONNEL CRIMINAL INJURY COMPENSATION SCHEME

2. The scheme has application to Subpostmasters and their registered Sub-office
Assistants and reliefs and substitutes who sustain permanent physical injury during
the theft/attempted theft of Post Office property on the premises, in or out of normal
business hours; or whilst travelling to/from the bank on Post Office business.

3. For the purpose of the scheme, registered Sub-Office Assistants are those:-
(a) whose commencement of employment has been reported to the Regional

General Manager on form P250 and thereafter recorded on form P356W at 1

April each year as being employed on Post Office work full-time, part-time,

occasionally, or

(b) whose employment as a temporary Assistant or Subpostmaster’s substitute has
been reported to the Regional Office on form P250.

Also covered is DISAPPEARANCE, if any of the categories of the people in (2) above
is missing as a result of criminal activity, and is presumed dead, a claim can be made
subject to:

{a) _ satisfactory evidence supporting the disappearance being supplied.

(b) _ there is no reason to believe otherwise and

(©) aperiod of 3 years has elapsed.

40 Issue

September 1994

€Copyright reserved

_D2.1/6/75,
awe we eww ee ee ee eee

I

Any payment thus made will be refunded if subsequently the person concerned is

found to be alive.

EXCLUSIONS

4. The policy does not cover:-

(a) Bodily injury sustained whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs
other than drugs taken in accordance with treatment prescribed and directed by a
qualified registered medical practitioner but not for treatment of drug addiction;

(b) any consequence of pregnancy or childbirth;

(©) any pre-existing physical or mental defect or infirmity;

(a) war risks.

CONDITIONS

The maximum benefit payable to one individual in one insurance year is £60,000 irrespective

of the number of incident/claims which may have occurred. If the maximum benefit is paid

to one individual in one insurance year no further liability rests with POCL. POCL’s

liability for a series of claims in any insurance period for the same person, shall not exceed

the maximum benefit (£60,000).

51

5.2

Any benefits payable under Parts 2 and 3 of the Schedule of Benefits, will only be paid.
on receipt of a DSS Medical Assessment, confirming permanent disablement Data to
be supplied to Post Office Group Treasury, Risk Management at the address shown in
part 6. Payment under Part 2 will not be made before the expiry of 90 consecutive
days of disablement. Fifty percent of the value of the medical assessment of benefit
may be paid on receipt of a 2 year provisional assessment. Any balance will be paid if
a life assessment is given. Benefits payable are subject to the overriding maximum of
£60,000.

Benefits may be paid for more than one disability listed in Part 3 of the schedule of
benefits, provided that the total amount received does not exceed the maximum,
benefit of £60,000.

4 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.16/76
5.3

5.4

55

Any benefit Payable under Part 3 and/or 4 of the Schedule of Benefits will be
deducted from the maximum benefit (£60,000), if the individual concerned
subsequently dies, or suffers permanent total disablement as a result of the injuries

received in the incident(s).
Any payment made under Part 4 of the Schedule of Benefits, can be made in advance
of the settlement of a claim under Parts 1, 2 or 3 of the schedule but is subject to an
overriding maximum benefit of (£60,000).

Benefits under Section 4 may be paid up to, but not exceeding 104 weeks, for total
disablement arising from a criminal attack while collecting cash from the bank for
authorised Post Office business.

Payments may be made:-

(a) at the end of the period(s) of total disablement; or

(b) _ at the injured persons request, at the end of at least four weeks total

disablement and thereafter at four weekly intervals, if requested.

Payments are subject to the provision of medical and any other relevant information

as requested by POCL.

Disablement or Partial loss not specified in the schedule of benefits.

The percentage benefit will be in accordance with the DSS medical assessment.

CLAIMS PROCEDURE

Claims must be made by the injured person (or his personal representative) within 3
months of the date of the incident(s) direct to the insurer, Post Office Counters’ Ltd
Agent, (Group Treasury) Chetwynd House, Chesterfield, S49 1PF. Claim forms are
available from the Regional General Manager or the Headquarters of the National
Federation of Sub-Postmasters, Evelyn House, 22 Windlesham Gardens, SHOREHAM
BY SEA, West Sussex, BN34 5AZ.

42 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

BRAR AARP RPP PRP RRR

02.16/77
EVIDENCE

All certificates and information shall be sent to POCL’s agent (Group Treasury) as and
when requested. Ifa Second opinion is required, an appointment will be made at a
time and date mutually acceptable. the cost will be met by the scheme. The injured
person will as often as required, submit to medical examination in respect of any

alleged bodily injury.

In the event of any dispute, POCL reserves the right to take such disputes to an

independent insurance broker for arbitration.

Income Tax is not payable on any benefits under the scheme.

THE GOVERNMENT'S SCHEME

10.

Compensating victims for crimes of violence is administered by the Criminal Injuries
Compensation Board, whose address for ENGLAND and WALES is Whittington
House, 19 Alfred Place, LONDON WCIE 7EA, and for SCOTLAND is Blythswood
House, 200 West Regent Street, GLASGOW G2 4SW Details of scheme can be
obtained from the Board, Office of the Department of Social Security, Department of
Employment and Productivity and Citizens Advice Bureaux. Injuries which occur in
Northern lreland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are outside the scope of the

government scheme.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

43 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/78
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
1. Death
2. Permanent total Disablement resulting in inability to follow any

occupation

3. Loss of/loss of use of limb(s) etc. and permanent disability in

accordance with the following permanent disabilities:-

PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT
Total loss of sight of both eyes

Total incurable insanity

Loss of both arms or both hands
Complete deafness of both ears of traumatic origin
Removal of lower jaw

Loss of speech

Loss of one arm and one leg

Loss of one arm and one foot

Loss of one hand and one foot

Loss of one hand and one leg

Loss of both legs

Loss of both feet

Loss of one eye

Complete Deafness of one ear

UPPER LIMBS

Loss of one arm or hand

Total loss of thumb

Partial loss of thumb (ungual phalanx)

44

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

£60,000

£60,000

expressed as a

percentage
of £60,000

100%

30-40%

20%

LEFT/RIGHT

60%

30%

10%

Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

I

02.1/6/79_,
pe eye Se RRR EG I

Total amputation of forefinger

Amputation of two phalanges of forefinger

Amputation of ungual phalanx of forefinger

Simultaneous amputation of thumb and forefinger

Amputation of thumb and finger other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of two fingers other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of three fingers other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of three fingers and thumb

Amputation of four fingers excluding thumb

Amputation of the median finger

Amputation of a finger other than thumb, forefinger and median

LOWER LIMBS

Amputation of thigh (upper half)

Amputation of thigh (lower half) and leg

Total loss of foot (tibio-tarsal disarticulation)
Partial loss of foot (sub-ankle-bone disarticulation)

Partial loss of foot (medio-tarsal disarticulation)

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

14%

11%

9%

35%

30%

12%

30%

45%

50%

12%

7%

expressed as a

percentage

of £60,000

80%

70%

30%

30%

Issue

September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/80
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1
Partial loss of foot) (tarso-metatarsal disarticulation) 20%
Shortening of the lower limb by at least 5em 40%
Shortening of the lower limb by at least 3 to Sem 40%
Shortening of the lower limb by 1 to 3em 40%
Total amputation of all toes 20%
Amputation of four toes including big toe 14%
Amputation of four toes 9%
Amputation of big toe 14%
Amputation of two toes 5%
Amputation of one toe other than the big toe 3%

Benefit from other injuries will be paid according to DSS assessment all occurring within 24

months of bodily injury or incident giving rise to a claim.

Total disablement arising from criminal attack whilst collecting Post Office cash from the
Bank, entirely preventing the injured person from engaging in, or giving attention to his/her

usual occupation - £200 per week, for each full week (one week = 7 days).

END
46 Issue
‘September 1994
©Copyright reserved

VS eo eo I

2.1/6/81_
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 12

RESPONSIBILITY FOR POST OFFICE STOCK AND CASH

CREDIT STOCK OF STAMPS ETC.

1. The Subpostmaster on taking up his appointment is supplied with suitable Post Office
stock, the amount of which is fixed by the Regional General Manager.

CASH BALANCE

2. The Subpostmaster is permitted to hold Post Office Counters Ltd cash normal to meet
payments at his sub-office after due allowance has been made for expected receipts

and in accordance with official accounting and security instructions.

3. The Subpostmaster is expressly forbidden to make use of the balance due to Post
Office Counters Ltd for any purpose other than the requirements of the Post Office
service; and he must, on no account apply to his own private use, for however short a
period, any portion of Post Office Counters Ltd funds entrusted to him. He must also
be careful to keep the Post Office money separate from any other monies. Misuse of
Post Office Counters Ltd cash may render the offender liable to prosecution and, or,

the termination of his Contract of Appointment.

ACCOUNTS

4. The Subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him.
by Post Office Counters Ltd are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters
Ltd. He must immediately produce these accounts, and the whole of his sub-office
cash and stock for inspection whenever so requested by a person duly authorised by

the Regional General Manager.

47 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/82
SECURITY OF CASH, STAMPS ETC.

10.

1.

‘The Subpostmaster is held strictly responsible for the safe custody of cash, stock of all
kinds and other Post Office Counters Ltd property, papers and documents, whether
held by himself or by his Assistants, and should keep them in a place of security,

especially at night.

The Subpostmaster is responsible for maintaining a standard of security sufficient to
enable him to meet the obligations laid on him by paragraph 5 for the safe keeping of
Post Office Counters Ltd cash and stock placed in his care. If any circumstances arise
which lead him to doubt whether he can do so he should immediately consult the

Regional General Manager.

In deciding the standard of security which it would be reasonable to require under
paragraph 6 Post Office Counters Ltd will have regard to (a) the circumstances in
which the Subpostmaster was appointed, and in particular the standard of security
then accepted; (b) the length of time since his appointment; and (c) any particular

circumstances affecting the sub-office which appear to be relevant.

All vouchers for payments e.g. Postal Orders, Allowance Dockets etc., should be
placed ina suitable receptacle (cardboard box or strong envelope), labelled “Paid
Vouchers” and at the close of business kept separately from cash and stock in another

secure place, such as a locked drawer or cupboard.

The Subpostmaster must be careful to keep his stocks of all kinds in such a manner
that they remain in good condition. The stocks must be protected against damp and

dust.

Datestamps used for authenticating documents (e.g, Postal Orders) or stamping
correspondence must be kept in a position on the counter where they are out of reach

of members of the public. When not needed for work they must be locked away.

Precautions should be taken to guard against the risk of fire.

48 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/83,
<a

LOSSES

12. The Subpostmaster is responsible for all losses caused through his own negligence,
carelessness or error, and also for losses of all kinds caused by his Assistants.

Deficiencies due to such losses must be made good without delay.

13. The financial responsibility of the Subpostmaster does not cease when he relinquishes
his appointment and he will be required to make good any losses incurred during his

term of office which may subsequently come to light.

GAINS

14. Surpluses may be withdrawn provided that any subsequent charge up to the amount

withdrawn is made good immediately.

THEFT OR BURGLARY

15. Ifa theft or burglary is committed or attempted at a sub-office, whether or not official
cash or stock is stolen, the facts must be reported at once to the Police and to the

Regional General Manager by the person who first makes the discovery.

MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK

16. If a Subpostmaster considers that any stock items have been accidentally lost, or
stolen he should make a report, in accordance with Appendix 1, as quickly as possible

to the Regional General Manager.

49 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/84
POL00422653
POL00422653

RELIEF

17. COUNTER LOSSES A Subpostmaster may exceptionally not be required to make
good the full amount of certain losses al his office. If he feels entitled to relief in

making good a loss he should apply to the Retail Network Manager.

18. THEFT OR BURGLARY The question of granting relief will depend upon whether the

Subpostmaster has taken reasonable precautions to safeguard the official cash and

property.

19. FRAUD All cases of fraud or attempted fraud should be reported immediately to the

Regional General Manager.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

50 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

02.116/85 5
Ll oe ee

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

ACCIDENTAL LOSS

If at any time any items of stock (including stock of no intrinsic value such as motor vehicle

licences) is found to be missing. Steps must be taken at once to ascertain what has
happened to the missing items. The serial numbers must be ascertained (see 2(a)) and
verified by examination of items in stock, and the requisition forms examined to
discover whether or not any of the items purport to have been issued out of sequence.
All the requisition forms for the previous 3 months must at the same time be
impounded and held for instructions. If, after careful search, the missing items cannot
be found and are thought to have been mislaid only, or inadvertently destroyed, a
preliminary report of the loss giving the serial numbers of the items in question must

be sent to the Regional General Manager.

STOLEN ITEMS

If asa result of burglary, break in, theft, or suspected theft any items of stocks are
missing the facts should be reported as quickly as possible to the Regional General

Manager.

The further details which will be required, and which should be obtained and
submitted to the Regional General Manager at the earliest opportunity, are as follows:

(a) I The denominations, total values and serial numbers of missing or stolen items,

so far as they are known, with serial numbers of any remaining stocks.

(b) A statement as to whether the date stamp of the sub-office has been stolen, and
ifso, particulars of the type in it when stolen. If the date stamp has not been
stolen a statement should be given which should intimate whether there is a

reason to believe that it has been used upon the stolen items.

(©) Aspecimen impression of the date stamp and, if it was stolen, particulars of the

type in it when stolen.

51 Issue
September 1994

‘@Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/86
POL00422653
POL00422653

(d) A statement of the circumstances which are thought to show that a theft has
been committed and of the supposed date, time and method of commission. It
should include, if possible, written report from the person who last saw the
missing items and the person who first discovered the loss. The former should
say when the items were last seen, in what place and in what kind of receptacle
(locked or unlocked) they then were. The latter should state how and when the
loss was discovered and describe exactly the condition of the place and of the

receptacle from which the items were apparently taken.

(e) Particulars of any cheques, including the transaction for which they were j

accepted.
!
1
END 1
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
!
I
I
i
i
j
L}
1
52 Issue !
September 1994 i
©Copyright reserved i
I

2.1/6/87
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 13

PREMISES

1. The Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, provide premises in which such
reasonable office accommodation and fittings as Post Office Counters Ltd may require

are made available for carrying on the Post Office Counters business.

TENANCY

2. The Subpostmaster must hold the premises either as owner or on a tenancy subject to
at least one quarter's notice. Exceptions are sometimes allowed as to tenancy where
the premises are owned or held on a suitable tenancy by the spouse of the
Subpostmaster or where the sub-office is transferred to a near relative of a

Subpostmaster of long service who holds the premises on a suitable tenancy.
3. The Subpostmaster must also at his own expense:-

- clean, decorate and maintain the sub-office premises inside and out to a good

standard;
- light and heat the sub-office premises;

- exhibit the sub-office title (ie. “. .. POST OFFICE”) in large painted letters ina
prominent posilion outside the building.

- in Wales exhibit an external bi-lingual sign “Syddfa’r Post/Post Office”;
- if required, provide convenient space for a letter box;

-  ifrequired, provide, where no security screen of a type approved by Post Office
Counters Ltd already exists, for the installation of such a screen. Post Office
Counters Ltd will provide and pay for the components of the screen and the
Subpostmaster will be responsible for its erection to the satisfaction of the
Regional General Manager and for its maintenance. On installation the screen

will become the property of the Subpostmaster.

53 Issue

September 1994

AUPE EE a

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/88
POL00422653
POL00422653

ALTERATIONS TO SUB-OFFICE PREMISES, ACCOMMODATION

4. The Subpostmaster must not, without the prior agreement of the Regional General

Manager:-

- move the sub-office to premises other than those in which it was situated at the

time of his appointment;

- alter the accommodation for carrying on the work of the sub-office from that

agreed at the time of his appointment.

NOTICES, PUBLICITY ETC.
5. The Subpostmaster must display in a position visible to the public at all times:

an up-to-date window notice indicating hours of opening which is supplied by the
Regional General Manager; other notices and leaflets, as required by Post Office
Counters Ltd.

6. The Subpostmaster must permit Post Office Counters Ltd to provide (in addition to a
security screen - paragraph 3) any improvements in the standard of security which it

decides to be necessary and for which it is prepared to pay.

RESITING OF POST OFFICE SECURITY EQUIPMENT

7. Where any agreed re-arrangement of the sub-office accommodation and/or fittings -
see paragraph 4 - involves the moving of Post Office security equipment the

Subpostmaster’s contribution to the cost of doing so will be decided as follows:-

NATURE OF ALTERATION CONTRIBUTION
REQUIRED OF
SUBPOSTMASTER
(a) Subpostmaster wishes to improve Post Office NIL

accommodation and Regional General Manager

agrees improvement is desirable.

34 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved
D2.1/6/89
POL00422653

POL00422653

(b) Subpostmaster has no alternative but to move his NIL

premises or alter them to meet requirements beyond

his control.
(c) Subpostmaster wishes to re-arrange his private 50%

accommodation, which will neither increase nor

improve the Post Office accommodation, but will

require security equipment to be moved.
(a) Subpostmaster wishes to re-arrange his private 80%

acconunodation, which will reduce Post Office

accommodation, though not to a level unacceptable

to the Regional General Manager, but security

equipment will need to be moved.
The above scale is intended as a rough guide only and Regional General Managers
have discretion to fix the level of contribution according to the circumstances of each
particular case.

RESIDENCE
8. A Subpostmaster who does not reside on the premises must satisfy his Regional
General Manger that he has made proper provision for the safety of Post Office
Counters cash and stock entrusted to his care. If residential accommodation is
associated with the sub-office the Subpostmaster must inform the Regional General
Manager if he does not occupy it himself, or if he ceases to do so, and must
immediately inform the Regional General Manager if at any time it becomes vacant.
55 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved 2.116190
MAILWORK OFFICES

10.

At Mailwork sub-offices where Post Office employees work on the premises, the

Subpostmaster will in addition be required to provide at his own expense:-

Access to lavatory facilities;

Facilities for washing, including a supply of hot water, e.g. a kettle of hot water where

running hot water is not available;

Hat and coat pegs;

Facilities for making tea, if required;

Adequate lighting and ventilation;

Adequate heating in winter.

The Subpostmaster as occupier of the premises, is required to provide most of the
above facilities under the provisions of the Offices, Shops and Railways Act 1963. It is
likely that the presence of postmen on the premises will require the Subpostmaster, as
occupier, to comply with other provisions of this Act. In addition duties are laid
down in Sections 3 and 4 of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, as regards
persons not in his employment. Bearing in mind that the responsibility is his, it is in
the Subpostmaster’s best interest to be aware of the various requirements of these

Acts.

ADVERTISEMENTS

11.

A title, which might suggest that Post Office Counters Ltd is concerned in the
management of the Subpostmaster’s private business, such as “Post Office Stores”,

must not be used.

56 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

02.1/6/91_,
=

=

=~ =~ KK KF eS

I

12.

13.

No advertisement may be exhibited in the part of the premises used for Post Office

Counters business which relates to:-

= alcoholic liquors (for or against);

- betting, gambling and football pools;

- any illegal business or matter;

- any controversial matter, an advertisement for which might suggest the Post

Office supported on side or the other;

- any commercial business which operates services of a kind conducted by the
Post Office.

Otherwise Post Office Counters Ltd is not concerned with the display of commercial
advertisements in the sub-office providing that they are not placed in such position as
to impair the security or the facilities for transacting Post Office Counter business. In

cases of doubt the matter should be referred to the Regional General Manger.

END
57 Issue
September 1994
‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/92
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 14
HOURS OF BUSINESS
INTRODUCTION
1. The actual hours of opening of any individual sub-office are set by the Regional
General Manager in accordance with the following rules.
The Subpostmaster must not without permission vary the hours of public business set
by the Regional General Manager.
STANDARD COUNTER HOURS OF SERVICE
2. The standard hours during which the Subpostmaster may be required to open his
office in order to transact all kinds of counter business appropriate to his office are:
Monday - Friday 0900-1730
Saturday 0900-1230 or 1300 (depending on local circumstances)
LUNCH TIME AND HALF DAY CLOSURE (MONDAY TO FRIDAY)
3. At the Subpostmaster’s request the Regional General Manager may authorise the
closure of an office within the times stated in paragraph 2:-
3.1. For up to 1 hour at lunch times, at times agreed between the Regional General
Manager and Subpostmaster.
3.2. On 1 afternoon per week (normally Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday but, in
exceptional circumstances Monday to Friday) from 1300 onwards.
58 Issue
September 1994
‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/93
—
POL00422653

POL00422653

——

E

t

I EXTENDED HOURS

I 4, Where a Subpostmaster wishes to conduct Post Office business outside standard

[ hours, Regional General Managers will consider such requests taking into account the

f normal shopping pattern in the locality and the proximity of other Post Offices.

[ 5. Where a Regional General Manager considers non standard hours may be more
appropriate for a particular office but the Subpostmaster disagrees, the Subpostmaster
may if he wishes trial a rearrangement of the opening hours. A trial period should not

fr extend beyond three months.

. SUSPENSION OF MID-WEEK HALF-DAY CLOSING DURING THE CHRISTMAS

! AND NEW YEAR PERIOD AND (WHERE APPLICABLE) ON THE THURSDAY

PRECEDING GOOD FRIDAY

. 6. _ The Regional General Manager may, on his own initiative or at the request of the
Subpostmaster, suspend any mid-week early closing on any day or days between 18

I and 31 December (Christmas Day and Boxing Day excluded) and on the Thursday

' before Good Friday. Additional payment will be made by Post Office Counters Ltd

; for such opening.

° LOCAL HOLIDAYS AND TUESDAYS AFTER BANK HOLIDAYS

i 7. Regional General Managers will review the concession under which some offices close

, on Local Holidays or on Tuesdays after Bank Holidays. Where this no longer matches

. customer needs the concession will be withdrawn.

Pa ADVERTISING OF HOLIDAYS

8. The times at which a sub-office is closed for National or Local holidays should be

prominently advertised at the office concerned.

59 Issue

September 1994
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/94
POL00422653
POL00422653

PAYMENT FOR THOSE PERIODS OUTSIDE THOSE MENTIONED IN PARAGRAPH I
2 ABOVE - NON MAILWORK OFFICES I

No additional payment will be made by Post Office Counters Ltd for any opening

l

outside standard Counters’ hours other than that attracted by extra business i
transacted. i
I

END I
I

I

I

t

t

Et

E

E

E

I

Lj

r

ij

i

I

}

I

I

i

I

I

60 Issue ‘
September 1994 i

Copyright reserved 1

1

D2.1/6/95
‘a
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 15

ASSISTANTS

GENERAL

1.

A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any assistance which he may

need to carry out the work in his sub-office.

Assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster. A Subpostmaster will be held wholly
responsible for any failure, on the part of his Assistants, to apply Post Office rules, or
to provide a proper standard of service to the public. He will also be required to
make good any deficiency, of cash or stock, which may result from his assistants’

actions.

ASSISTANTS’ CONDITIONS OF SERVICE

AGE

5.

Wages, hours, holidays etc., are a matter to be settled between Subpostmaster and the
assistants concerned. However, they should be no less favourable than those enjoyed
by shop assistants generally in the same district. Post Office Counters Ltd reserves

the right to intervene if such conditions are considered inequitable.

The Subpostmaster is responsible, as employer of his assistants, for complying with

the provisions of any legislation which imposes obligations on employers.

Asa general guide no person under 16 years of age should be employed on Sub-Office

work, or have access to mails, unless however there is no reasonable alternative to the

Part-time employment of an Assistant under 16 years of age.

61 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/96
POL00422653
POL00422653

SUITABILITY OF APPLICANTS - REFERENCES

6. _ Inthe light of the Subpostmaster’s responsibilities, set out in paragraph 2 above, he is
strongly recommended to satisfy himself of the character and suitability of an
applicant for employment as an Assistant before a firm offer of employment is made.

Generally the Subpostmaster should:-

(a) _ obtain proof of the identity of the applicant, e.g, birth or marriage certificate,

unless the applicant is known;

(6) _ seek information form the applicant about any conviction or finding of guilt for
any offence in a Court of Law (including Juvenile Court or Court Martial). In
this connection the Subpostmaster should be aware of the Rehabilitation of
Offenders Act 1974 which restricts the information that needs be given;

(c) _ enquire whether the applicant has ever been employed by the Post Office,
worked for another Subpostmaster or held sub-office appointment. If the {
former then details of such employment should be entered on form P250 (see I
paragraph 8) and a reference waited from the Regional General Manager. If
previously the applicant has worked at another Sub-Post Office, including as a I
Subpostmaster, details should be given on form P250 and a reference in respect I

of that employment sought from the Subpostmaster concerned;

(a) obtain references from all previous employers or schools attended over the last
3 years or from the last employer where the applicant has been employed
during the whole of that period.

7. When seeking references the Subpostmaster is advised to enquire if the applicant had
found to be completely trustworthy and ask the reason for his leaving that
employment. In some instances a Subpostmaster might have to employ an Assistant
before the procedures suggested above are completed. Bearing in mind the
complexities of current employment legislation a Subpostmaster in such a situation is
recommended to offer initially only short term employment pending receipt of
satisfactory references etc.

8. The Subpostmaster must notify the Regional General Manager of his intention to
employ a new Assistant on Post Office Counters Ltd work or when an Assistant

ceases to be employed in the sub-office.

62 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/97
ell ee oo

POL00422653
POL00422653

PERSONAL DECLARATION

9.

Before any person (including a member of the Subpostmaster’s family) is allowed to
have access to mails or to perform, either temporarily or permanently, any Post Office
work, he/she must make a personal declaration on form P13 (see section 16, appendix
2.

The declaration of the Subpostmaster’s Assistants and of any members of his family
who perform Post Office duties should be signed in the Subpostmaster’s presence in
circumstances which will help to fix the occasion and the declaration in the memory of
the signatory. The declaration should be made with proper deliberation and the
Subpostmaster should stress its importance and witness the signature. A signed and
witnessed copy of the form should be given to the signatory at the time and he should

be advised to preserve it carefully.

Forms P13 can be obtained from the Regional General Manager as required and must

be returned to him when signed.

SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANT ACCUSED OR SUSPECTED OF DISHONESTY ETC.

10.

11.

In cases where an Assistant is accused or suspected of dishonesty or any other offence
such as wilfully delaying postal packets, the Subpostmaster must report the
particulars to the Regional General Manager as soon as possible and await
instructions. If the report is made by telephone it must be confirmed in writing as a

matter of urgency.

In cases where a person employed by the Subpostmaster is guilty of misappropriating
Post Office Counters Ltd money, any sum which may be tendered by, or on behalf of,
the offender may be accepted but a receipt must be given showing that the money is
held pending possible investigation and without prejudice to any action that Post
Office Counters Ltd may be advised to take. The Subpostmaster should be careful not
to take any action which may be liable to prejudice the question of legal proceedings.

A copy of any receipt must be kept for reference.

63 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/98
UNSUITABLE PERSONS

12.

In order to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on Post
Office work, a Subpostmaster must notify the Regional General Manager if he
dismisses an employee on these grounds, or if his enquiries about an applicant for
employment give him reason to believe that the applicant is an unsuitable person.
Brief particulars of the evidence should be forwarded to the Regional General
Manager who will decide what steps should be taken to prevent the applicant

obtaining employment elsewhere in the Post Office or at another sub-office.

13. Where Post Office Counters Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not be in its
best interests for a particular person to have access to Post Office Counters Ltd cash
and stock as a Sub-Office Assistant it may call upon the Subpostmaster to:

(a) _ refrain from offering that person a post if not already employed;

(b) ensure that the person is not further employed on Post Office business if employed.

OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK

14. For any outdoor postal work required, provision is made either by the employment of

staff in the direct employ of the Post Office or by a special allowance to the

Subpostmaster for the engagement of casual labour.

64 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

02.1/6/99_
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 16

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE & INTERVIEWS

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

1. The unauthorised disclosure, or use directly, of any information or document which
has come to the knowledge of a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant through the
work of his Sub-Office is forbidden. Any such disclosure may render the offender
liable to prosecution under Post Office legislation or the Official Secrets Act (see
paragraph 3)

2.  Subpostmasters and their employees must not disclose any information regarding
postal packets passing through the post except to the person(s) to whom such packets
are addressed; nor may they make known information that may come to them
officially concerning the character, standing, or responsibility of individuals or firms,

or the private affairs of any person.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

3. (a) All Subpostmasters on taking up appointment and newly recruited Sub-Office
Assistants are required to sign a Personal Declaration (form P13) which reminds
them of the duty of the Post Office to ensure that all communications and items
entrusted to it reach the people for whom they are intended promptly and
safely, and that the information in them reaches no one not entitled to it. The
Person Declaration also brings to the notice of newly appointed Subpostmasters
and Sub-Office Assistants on taking up employment their obligations under the
Official Secrets Acts and various Post Office and Telegraph Acts. Extracts from
these Acts are reproduced at Appendices 1 and 3. A copy of form P13 is at
Appendix 2.

l (b) A Subpostmaster on termination of his appointment is required to sign a
Declaration (P301) as a reminder that the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts

. continue to apply to him after he has left in respect of all the information which

. he has acquired or to which he has had access by virtue of his appointed

1 Position as Subpostmaster. A copy of form P301 is at Appendix 3.

September 1994

L ©Copyright reserved
D2.1/6/100
POL00422653
POL00422653

(c)  Subpostmasters and Sub-Office Assistants are given a copy of their P13 and
Subpostmasters on termination of their appointment, additionally of form P301
for retention as a reminder of their importance and of the message they contain.
The duty not to disclose information is imposed by the relevant Acts, not by the
Personal Declarations. Consequently no Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant
can avoid these legal obligations by refusing to sign form P13 (also for
Subpostmasters form P301) or attempting to revoke or disclaim his signature on
the form(s).

4. Any request made by the Police or any other authority or by a private person for
information which may be confidential, or may concern matters connected with the
duties of another Subpostmaster or a Post Office employee, or with regard to the
address of a person who resides, in the neighbourhood should be referred

immediately to the Regional General Manager.

CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

5. The Post Office has a duty to safeguard its own interests and those of its employees
and sub-office personnel in relation to material which is published in the news media.
The Public Relations Department of the Post Office is primarily responsible for
deciding whether the Post Office should enter into public correspondence and for
ensuring fair and accurate presentation of facts about the Post Office and its services;
comment by other persons is undesirable and in particular, untrue, ill-informed or
reckless comment will not be allowed to go unchallenged. While recognising the right
of any individual to comment publicly on matters of general interest therefore, the
Post Office expects Subpostmasters and their employees who wish to comment upon
matters affecting the Post Office to exercise those right in a responsible manner.
Subpostmasters must ensure, when communicating with the press or offering
comment which may be broadcast on radio or television, that their comments do not
go beyond the accepted bounds of propriety and are not likely to cause
embarrassment or to mislead the public, The Regional General Manager should be

asked to advise in cases of doubt.

66 Issue

September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/101
POL00422653
POL00422653

t ‘A Subpostmaster wishing to communicate with the public news media should be

guided by the following:-

(a) _ there must be no unauthorised disclosure of official information (see paragraph

[ 1;

(b) _ views and opinions expressed publicly must not bring the Post Office or its

employees or any other Subpostmaster into disrepute;

(©) aSubpostmaster offering unauthorised public comment must make it clear that

he is commenting in his private capacity and not on behalf of the Post Office.

7. A Senior Representative (as defined in the national agreement on facilities for
‘ recognised unions) may wish from time to time to represent the view of the National
Federation of Sub-Postmasters, particularly on matters affecting his
Branch/Conunittee/ Federation. In doing so he must indicate his position as a

Federation spokesman and give his own name.

8. Particular care is necessary when offering spontaneous comment to press or

broadcasting reporters or interviewers.

PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

? 9. No Subpostmaster may, without the Regional General Manager's permission, use
information derived from official records or experience for the purpose of publishing

. any document, book, play or article, broadcasting on radio or television, producing or

ui exhibiting a film or photographs, giving a talk or lecture or taking part in a public

tf discussion.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC

u 10. A Subpostmaster should not, without the permission of the Regional General
L Manager, write to or interview members of the public on Post Office matters other

than for the purpose of correcting an error committed at his own sub-office.

67 Issue

September 1994

- - ---

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/102
POL00422653
POL00422653

OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

11. No Subpostmaster may, without permission, make an official document or a letter
from the public, or any other document which may come into his hands officially, the
subject of legal proceedings.

USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES

12. No Subpostmaster may use his position to further his private interests, or act in any
way which might give rise to the suspicion that he has used, for private purposes,

information available to him in his capacity as Subpostmaster.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

13. A Subpostmaster must report to the Regional General Manager any case in which
there appears to have been a breach of the above rules by anyone employed by him on
Post Office duties at the sub-office.

(APPENDICES 1-3 FOLLOW)

68 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/103
I

ee ee ee I

eee ee ee ee

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

SUMMARY OF EXTRACTS FROM ACTS OF PARLIAMENT

POST OFFICE ACT, 1953

(SECTION 57) as amended;

1. INENGLAND, WALES AND NORTHERN IRELAND if any person engaged in the
business of the Post Office secretes a postal packet in course of transmission by post,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanour and be liable to imprisonment for a term not

exceeding seven years.

(The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft Act,
1968 or the Criminal Damage Act, 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for such
offences are liable under the relevant sections of those Acts to imprisonment for a

term not exceeding ten years or in some cases for life.)

2. I INSCOTLAND If any person engaged in the business of the Post Office steals, or for
any purpose whatever embezzles or secretes a postal packet in course of transmission
by post, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanour and be liable to imprisonment for a term

not exceeding seven years.

(SECTION 58(1))

3. Ifany person engaged in the business of the Post Office, contrary to his duty, opens,
or procures or suffers to be opened, any postal packet in course of transmission by
post, or wilfully detains or delays, or procures or suffers to be detained or delayed,
any such postal packet, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanour, and be liable to

imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine, or to both.

69 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/104

APPENDIX 1

(SECTION 59)

4. Ifany person employed to convey or deliver a mail bag, or a postal packet in course of

transmission by post, or to perform any other duty in respect of a mail bag or such a

postal packet:-

(a)

(b)

©

(a)

e)

(09)

Without authority whilst so employed, or, whilst the mail bag or postal packet
is in his custody or possession, leaves it, or suffers any person, not being the
person in charge thereof, to ride in the place appointed for the person in charge
thereof in or upon any vehicle used for the conveyance thereof or to ride in or
upon a vehicle so used and not licensed to carry passengers, or upon a horse

used for the conveyance on horseback thereof;
Is guilty of any act of drunkenness whilst so employed;

Is guilty of carelessness, negligence or other misconduct whereby the safety of

the mail bag or postal packet is endangered;

Without authority collects, receives, conveys or delivers a postal packet

otherwise than in the ordinary course of post;
Gives any false information of an assault or attempt at robbery upon him; or

Loiters on the road or passage, or wilfully misspends his time so as to retard the
progress or delay the arrival of a mail bag or postal packet in the course of
transmission by post, or does not use due care and diligence safely to convey a

mail bag or postal packet at the due rate of speed;

He shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds (twenty

pounds in Northern Ireland).
(SECTION 87)
5. “Postal packet” means a letter, postcard, newspaper, printed packet, sample packet,

or parcel, and every packet or article transmissible by post, and includes a telegram.

(APPENDICES 2 AND 3 FOLLOW)

70 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

i
i
i
E
E
E
E
E
E
E
I J
E
E
E
E
E
Ee
E

E
E
E
c
E
E
E
E
E
E
cE
Ec
cE
Ly
&
s

D2.1/6/105
APPENDIX 2

PERSONAL DECLARATION (P13)

To be made by all persons on entering employment in the Post Office.

DUTY OF THE POST
OFFICE

NON-DISCLOSURE
OF OFFICIAL
INFORMATION

The first duty of the Post Office is to ensure that letters, parcels,
and all other communications or items entrusted to it reach the
people for whom they are intended promptly and safely, and
that the information in them reaches no one not entitled to it.

To help the Post Office to render this essential service to the
community, the Law makes certain provisions of which the more
important are stated overleaf. It is important for you to know
and understand those provisions, not only for your own sake,
but also in order that you should not, through any fault or
omission on your part, enable or tempt others to break them.

It is illegal to disclose official information without authority. A
person engaged in Post Office work must not disclose any
information which he/she obtains as a result of that work, unless
he/she has written permission to do so.

You shall neither during you employment with the Post Office
nor for a period of 1 year after that employment ceases, disclose
to any other person, firm, or company, or publish or broadcast or
use for your own benefit any confidential information relating in
any way to the activities, operations or business methods of the
Post Office, except as previously authorised in writing by the
Post Office.

YOU SHOULD READ CAREFULLY THIS STATEMENT AND THE ONE OVERLEAF
AND THEN SIGN YOUR NAME TO THE DECLARATION BELOW.

19

In the presence of

Note:

Signature

Rank

The person signing this form should sign with his ordinary
signature in the presence of a Supervising Officer. The
Subpostmaster should witness the signature of persons
employed at a Scale Payment Sub-Office.

71 Issue
September 1994.

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/106
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2

PERSONAL DECLARATION (P13)

SAFETY OF
POSTAL PACKET

SECRECY

It is an offence to STEAL, SECRETE or DESTROY a letter, parcel
or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post, and
heavy penalties, including terms of imprisonment are provided
for such offences.

It is also an offence to OPEN or DELAY (without proper
authority) a letter, parcel or any other postal packet in course of
transmission by post, and penalties of fine or imprisonment are
provided for such offences.

CARELESSNESS, NEGLIGENCE or other mis-conduct which
endangers the safety of a mailbag or postal packet is likewise a
punishable offence.

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is an offence of a
Government contractor (including an employee of a Government
Contractor) to make a damaging disclosure relating to security or
intelligence. A damaging disclosure may relate to defence,
international relations or information received in confidence
from another state or international organisation, or which results
or is likely to result in the commission of offences, or which is of
information which relates to or was obtained by special
investigation powers. It is also an offence for Government
contractors (and their employees) to fail to safeguard or
improperly to retain or provide access to documents or articles
containing information which it would be an offence under the
Act to disclose. A Government contractor means any person or
body who is employed in the provision of goods or services for
the Crown.

When a person transfers from one post to another, he must
surrender all documents connected with the post he is leaving,
except those issued to him for his personal retention. When he
leaves the Post Office all official documents must be given up,
with the exception of those which he has been authorised to
retain.

All the above conditions apply to all persons with access to any
official information, not only while the access continues, but also
after it ceases, and by termination of employment.

Any person who handles information about identifiable living
people which is processed automatically (e.g. on a computer or
word processor) may also commit an offence under the Data
Protection Act, 1984, if he/she improperly obtains, holds or
discloses any such information, of if he/she improperly transfers
it outside the United Kingdom.

(APPENDIX 3 FOLLOWS)

72 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/107
APPENDIX 3

DECLARATION TO BE SIGNED BY ALL PERSONS CEASING TO BE EMPLOYED ON
POST OFFICE WORK, ALSO BY OTHER PERSONS ON CEASING TO HAVE ACCESS
TO SECRET INFORMATION.

My attention has been drawn to the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 which is set
out on the back of this document, and I am fully aware that serious consequences may

follow any breach of those provisions.
T understand:

1. that the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 may apply to me after my

appointment has ceased;

2. that information which I have acquired owing to my official position may be
information which is covered in Sections 1-8 of the Official Secrets Act 1989.

For a period of one year after my appointment with the Post Office ceases I shall not disclose
to any other person, firm or company, or publish or broadcast or use for my own benefit
any confidential information relating in any way to the activities, operations or business

methods of the Post Office, except as previously authorised in writing by the Post Office.

Thereby declare that I have surrendered any document made or acquired by me owing to

my official position save such as I have written Post Office authority to retain.

Signed Rank

Permanent Home Address (inc. postcode)

Date
Official Address
Signed in The Presence Of
Rank
73 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/108
APPENDIX 3
Surname
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Forename(s)
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Date of Birth Date of Leaving
19
Regd No of Appt Papers Keep Until
7A Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

npmuaeimam meee eS eee oe

_ im

D2.1/6/109__
gQuwwwYwywweweweees =

APPENDIX 3

THE OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 1989

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is an offence of a Government contractor (including
an employee of a Government Contractor) to make a damaging disclosure relating to
security or intelligence. A damaging disclosure may relate to defence, international
relations or information received in confidence from another state or international
organisation, or which results or is likely to result in the commission of offences, or which is
of information which relates to or was obtained by special investigation powers. It is also an
offence for Government contractors (and their employees) to fail to safeguard or improperly
to retain or provide access to documents or articles containing information which it would
be an offence under the Act to disclose. A Government contractor means any person or

body who is employed in the provision of goods or services for the Crown.

END

75 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/110
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

&
e
E
SECTION 17
E
SUBPOSTMASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES; BETTING AND GAMBLING; E
POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
E
E

“PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES”

E

1. The appointment of a Subpostmaster confers on the individual concerned the right to E
transact, and to receive payment for, certain items of business of behalf of Post Office

Counters Ltd at the premises specified. The conditions of the appointment also F

involve such restrictions on the private activities of the Subpostmaster as are E

necessary to ensure the continued viability of Post Office Counters nation-wide

network,

2.  Itis, therefore, in the interests of all Subpostmasters that Post Office Counters Ltd
should be able to seek, negotiate and manage retail business in the market place
without the risk that it will find any Subpostmaster competing against it for the same
business, and accordingly a Subpostmaster must not undertake in a private capacity
any business, or allow anyone else to undertake on the premises in which a sub-office
is situated, business of the kind which Post Office Counters Ltd requires him to

provide for itself or its clients.

3. The current restrictions on private business activities on the premises in which the

sub-post office is situated are as follows:

i. collection of payments, or sale of prepayment meter tokens on behalf of any

public utility - water, gas, telephone or electricity company;

ii, collection of payment, on behalf of cable or satellite television companies,
collection of revenue whether by sale of stamps or other means on behalf of

local authorities;

iii, sale of “unbooked” travel tickets or passes on behalf of any transport company

or local authority;

76 Issue

September 1994

E
E
E
g
E
&
E
E
E
c
E
E
E
E
e
c
c
E
E
gE
€

©Copyright reserved

e

2.1/6/111
I

eee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee I

I

iv. sale of National Lottery tickets, or similar nationally available lottery products,

unless POCL is unable to secure this business because of legal restraints;
v. commercial change giving service;

vi. _ phone card sales on behalf of BT, Mercury or any future phone card operator
with whom POCL obtains or seeks to obtain a contract for the sale of such

cards;

vii. _ business concerned with the provision of services relating to the conveyance of
letters, parcels and other postal packets (“collectively called postal packets” in
this paragraph) including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
the sale of stamps, the acceptance of postal packets for conveyance and delivery
and the acceptance of payment for services relating to the collection, conveyance

and delivery of Postal Packets;
viii. provisions of private box and poste restante facilities;
ix. _ business which is connected with the acceptance or delivery of parcels;
x.  collection/ delivery or return of undeliverable packets and parcels;
xi. Banking, Building, Provident or Friendly Society business.

The above categories of business constitute the current restrictions but Post Office
Counters Ltd reserves the right to review these restrictions in the light of changing
Business requirements, varying them if necessary. All Subpostmasters will be

informed of any such changes.

If an opportunity for new business occurs to a Subpostmaster, or if a Subpostmaster
receives any communication from a third party which amounts, or may amount, to an
offer to the Subpostmaster to undertake the work, which come within the current
restrictions specified in paragraph 3 above the Subpostmaster should not accept such
work. Instead he should, at once, inform Post Office Counters Ltd of the
circumstances and seek advice as to whether the work concerned falls within the

restrictions described above.

77 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.1/6/112
POL00422653
POL00422653

BETTING AND GAMBLING

6.

‘A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant should not:

(a) _ bet or gamble by means of post (betting by private telephone off the Post Office
part of the premises is permissible);

(b) _ take part in racing etc. pool or competitions or betting at “fixed odds” on
football matches (there is no objection to participation in ordinary football pool

competition).

A Subpostmaster should not on the premises in which the sub-office is situated;

(a) _ allow or provide for gambling;

(b) conduct any business with a turf commission agency or a football or turf pool
agency.

Notwithstanding the conditions of Paragraphs 3 (iv), 5 and 7 above, a Subpostmaster
or a Sub-Office Assistant may in a private capacity take part in or act as a promoter of
such local lotteries as are permitted under the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976
(Northern Ireland in part III of the Betting and Lotteries Act (Northern Ireland) 1957).
‘The onus of ensuring that the law is complied with rests with the person concerned in
the promotion and conducting of the lottery and the sale of tickets. Tickets for such
lotteries must not be sold over the sub-office counter nor must the Post Office be used
in any way for advertising purposes, e.g. in giving addresses at which tickets are
available, nor must advertisements include the words Post Office, Sub-Post Office or
Subpostmaster.

LICENSED PREMISES

A sub-office may not be situated in premises for which an “on” licence allowing for
the sale of drinks, other than a restaurant, has been granted, unless the premises have
been clearly divided so that Post Office customers do not need to go through the
licensed premises. There is no objection to the Subpostmaster holding and “off”

licence provided the liquor is sold in closed vessels.

78 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/113_
POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

10.

11.

A Subpostmaster is free to take part in any national and local political activities

subject to the following conditions:-

(a) _ he must not engage in or allow his assistants to engage in political activities

whilst engaged on Post Office business or on the sub-office premises;

(b) he must not exhibit any notice soliciting votes for any particular candidate or
with any party or political object either in the sub-office or on any vehicle under
the control of the Post Office; and no leaflet or address with a party or political
object may lie or be exhibited within the sub-office.

A Subpostmaster who intends to stand for Parliament must notify the Regional
General Manger accordingly at the earliest opportunity. He must cease to have
connection with the running of the sub-office from the day he is nominated when the
office will be placed “in charge”. On receipt of the notification the Regional General
Manger will inform him of arrangements whereby he may name a deputy to act as
Subpostmaster should he be elected. If he is elected he will be able to resume office
when he ceases to be a Member of Parliament, provided he has complied with the
arrangements for naming a deputy and the sub-office has not been closed through
normal changes during his absence; should he fail to comply with these arrangements
he will be regarded as having resigned on the day he is elected. If he is not elected he
may resume office after the election result has been declared. A Subpostmaster who is
elected retains the right to resume office after he ceases to be a Member of Parliament,

provided the break in his service does not exceed 5 years.

USE OF THE NAME “POST OFFICE”

12.

A Subpostmaster must not use the name “Post Office” in connection with any of his
Private business activities or in such a way as to imply that the Post Office is in any

‘way connected with these activities.

79 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.1/6/114
CANVASSING

13. A Subpostmaster must not canvass persons, firms or companies who reside or carry
on business at a place nearer to another Post Office, to transact Post Office business at

his sub-office. Nor must he deliver items of Post Office business to customer's

premises.

EMPLOYMENT IN THE POST OFFICE OR THE CIVIL SERVICE

14. A Subpostmaster or a Sub-Office Assistant may not be employed in the Post Office if
his duties would bring him into contact with the work of the sub-office.

BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

15. A Subpostmaster must not borrow from or lend money to any Post Office employee.
Nor should he become security for any Post Office employee in raising a loan. The
loaning of money to persons drawing pensions or allowances on the security of their

order books is also strictly forbidden.

USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINESS

16. A Subpostmaster must not engage Post Office employees to undertake any work
whatsoever connected with the Subpostmaster’s private business at anytime when

they are employed in Post Office duties.

NOTE: In view of the implications of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1976 the agreement
of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters has not been sought in the terms of

this section.

END

80 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 18

NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES: APPEALS PROCEDURE

ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES

1. Although there may be instances where civil or criminal proceedings are
contemplated in which it would serve no useful purpose to call for a written
explanation, in all other instances, and without prejudice to any subsequent
proceedings, any Subpostmaster will be afforded an opportunity of giving a written
explanation of allegations of non-compliance or non-observance of the rules which are

made against him.

2. At the discretion of the Retail Network Manager which will not normally be withheld,
the Subpostmaster may, if he wishes, meet the Retail Network Manager to discuss the
allegations. he may be accompanied by a friend while doing so. The friend must be
aged 18 or over and cannot be someone involved in the enquiry. The friend must be a
Subpostmaster, sub-office Assistant or Post Office employee - and can be the local

NFSP representative.

3. As repeated breaches of the rules, even if minor in themselves, may lead to the
determination, without further warning or appeal, of the contract by means of the
giving of three months notice, it is strongly recommended that Subpostmasters take
the opportunity to make such written and verbal explanations of their actions at the
time of the alleged breach of rules. A record will be kept by the Retail Network
Manager of any such discussions and of any written warnings issued to the

Subpostmaster.

REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS

4. Without prejudice to the above a Subpostmaster may address at any time the Regional
General Manager and representation he may wish to make having reference to his
duties, remuneration or any other Post Office matter. The decision of the Regional

General Manager as to his response to such representations is final.

81 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

2.1/6/116
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPEALS

5. Ifthe Subpostmaster wishes to appeal against a decision to summarily terminate his
contract for services, he may do so either in writing or by personal interview and will
be allowed ten (10) working days from the date of the termination letter to make
application, to a member of the Post Office Counters Ltd “Appeals Authority” whose
decision will be final. There is no formal appeal against three months notice of
contract termination or against termination with pay in lieu of notice. Appeals on all
other issues (e.g. recovery of losses caused by the Subpostmasters negligence) are

heard by the Regional General Manager whose decision is final.

APPROACHES TO PERSONS OUTSIDE THE POST OFFICE

6. Until the Subpostmaster has exercised his final right of appeal, he should not ask
persons outside the Post Office to take up the case on his behalf although this does not
prevent a Subpostmaster from obtaining such advice and support from the NFSP or
any other outside person as may help him to present his case effectively. The
Subpostmaster should not detain Post Office papers or allow them out of his custody
for the purpose of such consultation without the permission of the Retail Network

Manager.

END

82 Issue

September 1994

== ee ooo oreo

©Copyright reserved

4
D2.1/6/117
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 19

OFFENCES: SUSPENSION: ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE INVESTIGATION

DIVISION

Dishonesty is viewed most seriously and any Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant
believed to have carried, or taken part in, an act of dishonesty against Post Office
Counters Ltd may be prosecuted. Furthermore, any Subpostmaster so involved
renders himself liable to summary termination of his contract. The case of an
Assistant Post Office Counters Ltd may recommend to the Subpostmaster that the

Assistant should no longer remain in his employ on Post Office Counters business.

ARRESTS AND CONVICTIONS

2.

A Subpostmaster must report to his Regional General Manager if he is arrested and
refused bail, or if he is convicted by a Court of any criminal offence (except a traffic

offence for which the penalty has not included imprisonment).

IMMORALITY AND OTHER MATTERS OF PERSONAL CONDUCT

It is the aim and practice of Post Office Counters Ltd to maintain, to the maximum
extent compatible with needs of service to the public, an attitude of non-interference
in the private lives of Subpostmasters. However, where facts come to light calculated
to cause public scandal or grave embarrassment to the Post Office in connection with
a Subpostmaster’s private conduct, the question of his fitness for retention in office

may have to be considered.

SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE

4.

A Subpostmaster may be suspended from office at any time if that course is
considered desirable in the interest of Post Office Counters Ltd in consequence of his:
(a) being arrested, (b) having civil or criminal proceedings brought or made against
him, (c) where irregularities or misconduct at the office(s) where he holds
ppointment(s) have been established to the satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd,

oF are admitted, or are suspected and are being investigated.

83 Issue

September 1994

©Copyright reserved
D2.1/6/118
POL00422653

POL00422653

Where a Subpostmaster is suspended his remuneration in respect of any period of

suspension will be withheld so long as such suspension continues.

On the termination of the period of suspension whether by termination of contract or
reinstatement, the Subpostmaster’s remuneration in respect of the period may, after
consideration of the whole of the circumstances of the case, be forfeited wholly or in
part. If remuneration is paid any rent or other expenses which may have been paid to
him in respect of the continued use of his premises for Post Office purposes during the

period of suspension will be deducted.

CRIMINAL CONDUCT: REPORTING

7.

If a Subpostmaster has knowledge or suspicion of dishonesty or other criminal
conduct affecting the Post Office on the part of any person including a Sub-Office
Assistant or a Post Office employee he must, if there is any apparent need for
immediate action, at once tell the Regional General Manager confidentially of his

knowledge or suspicion.

INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES

If any person should try to induce a Subpostmaster or a member of his staff to act
contrary to the rules (if, for example, he should be asked to datestamp covers
irregularly with a view to either himself or the offender afterwards enclosing therein
betting slips or other communications relating to the result of some race, game or
sport) he should, while avoiding compliance (save in the case described in paragraph
9, also avoid putting that person upon his guard by definite refusal). The
Subpostmaster should as soon as possible tell the Regional General Manager what has
happened giving a full report and description of the person so that an immediate

report can be made to POID and instructions sought.

A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who is asked irregularly to put in course of
post for despatch or delivery from his own office a cover already date-stamped,
addressed to a betting agent, and presumably already containing a betting slip or
other communication respecting the result of some race, game or sport, should accept
it and with it any bribe offered for compliance. He should at once initial the cover and
hand it and the bribe to the Regional General Manager, to whom he should report as

provided in the last sentence of paragraph 8.

84 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

2.1/6/119
POL00422653
POL00422653

THEFTS BY STRANGERS

10. A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who sees a theft of Post Office Property
committed by a stranger should inform the Police of the facts and then report the

matter to his Regional General Manager as soon as possible.

FAILURE TO REPORT DISHONESTY

11. Inline with any employee of the Post Office a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant
is expected to report immediately any suspicion of dishonesty or criminal intent
which may in any way affect the Post Office, whether the likely offender be connected
with the Post Office or not. He is similarly enjoined to render all possible assistance to

officers of the Investigation Division (see below).

ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE POST OFFICE INVESTIGATION DIVISION

12. The main job of the Investigation Division is to investigate, or help the Police to

! investigate, criminal offences against the Post Office, British Telecommunications and

I the Department of National Savings. the Investigation Division does NOT enquire

f into matters where crime is not suspected.

t 13. Most of the crimes dealt with by the Investigation Division are committed by

E outsiders. If follows that a common reason for Investigation Division officers seeking
E interviews with persons employed on Post Office business is to get help in clearing up

such offences. Usually the help takes the form of a witness statement that provides

=

evidence about a particular act or acts that the witness has carried out in the course of
his or her duty.

85 Issue

‘September 1994

PPrrrrerrrFereweres=

©Copyright reserved
D2.4/6/120

14.

15.

POL00422653

POL00422653

Although they comprise the minority of all Investigation Division crime
investigations, there are many cases where the possibility (or even direct suspicion)
arises that persons employed on Post Office business may be involved. Officers of the
Investigation Division conduct interviews about these suspected offences and they are
required to observe the same code of conduct when obtaining evidence as that laid
down for Police Officers. This provides for an officer investigating a criminal offence
to question any person, whether suspected or not, from whom he thinks that useful
information may be obtained. As soon as the Investigation Division officer has
evidence which would afford reasonable ground for suspecting that a person has
comunitted an offence, he must caution him before asking any questions about that
offence. The caution must be in terms which make it clear that the suspected person is
not obliged to say anything unless he wishes to do so and that what he says will be

put into writing and given in evidence.

If a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant is questioned as a suspected person by an
officer of the Investigation Division, on statements made by a third person, and
expresses a desire to be confronted by that person, such confrontation will, if
practicable, be arranged. At the confrontation, the suspect will be at liberty to
question the third person on his evidence and the questions and replies will be

recorded by the Investigation Division officer.

FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS

16.

At all interviews between Investigation Division Officers and a Subpostmaster or Sub-
Office Assistant, the interviewing officer will first introduce himself, explain the
nature of the enquiry, the ask the person to be interviewed if he wishes to have a
friend present. The introduction and explanation are necessary first steps so the
person to be interviewed knows what is involved when he makes his free personal

choice whether to ask for a friend to be present at the interview or not.

86 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/121
POL00422653
POL00422653

17. A friend invited to attend an Investigation Division interview must be aged 18 or over
and cannot be someone involved in the inquiry. The friend must be a Subpostmaster,
Sub-Office Assistant or Post Office employee - and can be the local NFSP
representative. To avoid unreasonable delay and to ensure that interviews will not
commence until a friend, if requested, is present, the person being interviewed will be
asked to nominate alternative friends if the one first (or subsequently) chosen is not
available or may be involved in the enquiry.

18. Ifa person being interviewed declines to have a friend present when asked but
changes his mind later, he may ask for a friend to be called at that stage. If he is not
questioned as a suspected person at the outset (i.e. not under caution), but fresh
evidence emerges during the interview which gives reasonable grounds for suspicion,
the Investigation Division officer will make this clear and explain that he proposes to
continue his questions after caution. Before the caution is given the Investigation
Division officer will ask if the presence of a friend is desired during the remainder of

the interview.

( 19. A friend may only attend and listen to questions and answers. He must not interrupt
: in any way, either by word or signal; if he does interrupt he will be required to leave
at once and the interview will proceed without him. Whatever is said at the interview

is to be treated as in strictest confidence. The friend may take notes of the interview

t but he must keep the notes in the strictest confidence. The only communication the

{ friend is entitled to make on behalf of the person who has been questioned will be in

, the form of a written “in strictest confidence” statement which may be submitted by
the latter, in support of any official appeal which the person questioned may desire to

I make in connection with the methods followed at the enquiry. No other

I communication about the interview is allowed (unless made by permission of the Post

, Office) as it might constitute a breach of the Official Secrets Acts. The questioned
officer may, however, if he so desires, communicate the friend’s statement to the

I National Federation of Sub-Postmasters in strictest confidence.

I

1

i

i

87 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved
rere D2.1/6/122

SEARCHES

20.

21.

Ifa person agrees to his property or house being searched by Investigation Division
staff the Investigation Division officer will ask, before the search is carried out, if he

wishes to have a friend present.

Investigation Division officers have no authority to search a Subpostmaster or Sub-
Office Assistant or their homes unless the have first obtained the agreement of the
person concerned or they have obtained a warrant to do so. In practice Investigation
Division officers only seek authority or permission to search when it is deemed.
absolutely necessary or in the interests of the person involved (e.g. as a pointer to their
innocence). If search by consent is carried out during the course of enquiries which

do not substantiate any suspicion that may have been directed at a Subpostmaster or
Sub-Office Assistant, he will be handed at a later stage a written apology for any
inconvenience caused, coupled with a statement that he readily agreed to the search
and that nothing which would cast any doubt on his honesty was found.

END
88 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

2.1/6/123
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 20

INFECTIOUS (INCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES

Subpostmasters, are expected to act on the advice given by their general practitioners
or hospital specialists, and to refrain from providing “Personal Service”, by taking
leave of absence, through sickness if advised to do so. This is both for their own good

and that of others.

Contact with a person suffering from such a disease will only rarely exempt a
Subpostmaster from providing Post Office services, nevertheless the advice in Par. 1

may apply if the medical practitioner so advises.

“Open cases” of Pulmonary tuberculosis must receive clearance from the Post Office,

before a Subpostmaster will be allowed to resume the provision of “Personal Service”.

If the local Public Health Department should require the temporary closing of the
office, the Regional General Manager will issue instructions as to the stock, etc. In
such cases the question of continuing payment of the subpostmaster’s emoluments
subject to a deduction in respect of any saving in expenses, will be considered on its

merits.

These conditions apply equally to any assistants employed by a subpostmaster on
Post Office duties. Also, in such cases the question of meeting any loss sustained by
the Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant in consequence of the latters enforced
absence will be considered on its merits. It should, however, be understood that the
object of any payment that may be made by Post Office Counters Ltd in these cases is
to prevent there being any inducement to the sub-office Assistant to come on duty
when his presence would be a source of danger to the public or the Post Office
employees with whom they might come in contact in his Post Office work. Post Office

Counter recognises no other obligation in the matter.

END

89 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/124
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 21

TELEPHONE FACILITIES AT SCALE PAYMENT SUB-POST OFFICES

PROVISION OF TELEPHONE FACILITIES

1. A Subpostmaster must, in connection with official business of Post Office Counter
Ltd, and in the interests of security, arrange for the provision of telephone facilities at
his sub-post office. The following facilities are required by Post Office Counters Ltd:-

(a) a direct exchange line; or

(b)  anextension plan installation comprising a portable telephone and two sockets:
one to be installed in the sub-post office and the other in the Subpostmaster’s
bedroom. (This type of installation is only required where the Regional General ]
Manager considers it is desirable, as a security measure, and where the I
Subpostmaster resides on the premises. However, Post Office Counters Ltd will
not require this type of system to be installed at island and small rural offices
where the Regional General Manager considers that the risk of criminal attack is
clearly negligible).

REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATIONS COSTS

2. Post Office Counters Ltd will reimburse the Subpostmaster for costs incurred in the I
installation of the required telephone facility provided that excessive expenditure is
not involved. However in the event that the Subpostmaster decides to have installed
a system other than that required by Post Office Counters Ltd the Post Office
contribution to the total installation costs will be no greater than the cost of installing
the facilities outlined in paragraph 1 above. If a Subpostmaster is required to make
provision for an extension plan system as described in paragraph 1(b) and chooses to
have an extension socket in a room other than his bedroom the Post Office
contribution to the installation cost will be no greater than would be incurred in

respect of the installation of a direct exchange line.

90 Issue
September 1994

‘©Copyright reserved

02.116/125,
POL00422653
POL00422653

RENTAL CHARGES

3. Post Office Counters Ltd on production of a paid quarterly telephone account, will
reimburse the Subpostmaster the rental charges billed by BT including the VAT
element (see paragraph 10) appropriate to the type of telephone facility that the
Regional General Manager has agreed is necessary (see paragraph 1). Rental charges :

‘ which exceed the levels so authorised by the District Manger remain the responsibility

of the Subpostmaster.

CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE

4. Each Subpostmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance of call
units for official purposes, based on the scale of Post Office business transacted; any
part of the allowance not expended in a telephone account period cannot be carried
over to the next. The Subpostmaster is due to pay for all call units used in excess of

this allowance.

5. The standard allowances have been fixed at a level which takes into account the
varying conditions between offices. They also allow a margin for contingencies.

6. The scale of allowances, related to the telephone account period, is as follows; the call
unit allowance in column (b) is intended to reimburse Subpostmasters for longer
distance calls to DNS, Girobank etc., where these are not covered by the basic

allowance in column (a):

per annum units

Offices in unit bands: Official call units Additional call
(a) per annum
)

I

t

I

I

I

i

I

Z

Li

EZ

i

a

a

a

=

ry
Up to 85,000 260 NIL
85,001 - 225,000 360 350

; 225,001 - 400,000 460 500

I

=

over 400,000 560 700

o1 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/126

POL00422653
POL00422653

7. Where calls from a sub-post office to the Regional or Controlling Crown Office are not
within a local call area and are charged on the basis of the distance between two
points, the standard allowance of official call units (paragraph 6, column (a)) will be
subject to the following multipliers:

Distance in miles from District or Rate of charge Multiplier to be

controlling Crown Office applied to official
allowance

Up to 35 miles a 5

over 35 miles b 14

SUPPLEMENTARY ALLOWANCE

8. A Mailwork Subpostmaster may claim an additional allowance, in respect of calls
made in connection with his Mailwork responsibilities, providing that the standard
allowance has been expended. A claim, supported by documentary evidence should
be submitted to the Regional General Manager with the telephone account for the

period concerned.

EMERGENCY REPAIRS

9. Some British Telecom General Managers are prepared to provide emergency repair

facilities for Subpostmasters. The service allows for attention to faults reported:-
(a) Monday-Friday between 1700 and 0800 hours;

(b) Saturday up to 0800 and from 1300 hours;

() all day on Sunday, Public and Bank Holidays.

All other times repair facilities apply. Subpostmasters will be billed for use of the

emergency service on the normal quarterly bill and Regional General Mangers will

reimburse these costs on presentation of the bill.

92 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/127
—
=

errr tr er Cer ee ee

REIMBURSEMENT OF VAT CHARGES

10.

The Post Office will reimburse the Subpostmaster the charges raised for VAT at the
standard rate, in respect of that part of the total charge related to Post Office services,

ie. rental, the free call allowance and emergency repairs.

END
93 Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/128
POL00422653
POL00422653

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 22

UALITY STANDARDS

1. Post Office Counters Ltd, through its network of post offices, aims to give customers
and clients a high quality service. The Subpostmaster must therefore give high
priority to serving customers quickly and efficiently, and to fulfilling the
documentation requirements of clients with accuracy and professionalism. Also the
Subpostmaster will participate in “Putting the Customer First” by attending the
training sessions which form the programme and carrying out the interim activity

required between sessions.

The interim activity consist of commitment to display the Customer Charter in the
public area of the sub post office, and to hand out questionnaires inviting customer
feedback. On an ongoing basis questionnaires will be handed out at regular intervals,
to be determined by POCL, but not more than once every six months. In addition to
the issue of questionnaires Subpostmasters, particularly those in larger offices, will be
encouraged to measure customer service as described below. Subpostmaster’s sub-
office assistants are also expected to undergo the “Putting the Customer First”
programme, either at sessions led by the Subpostmasters themselves, once they are
trained, or the retail network manager. Subpostmasters should make all reasonable
efforts to encourage their staff to participate in the training.

Payment for attendance at the four “off site” sessions, led by retail network managers,
within the “Putting the Customer First” programme, will be for travel and
substitution.

WAITING TIME

2. The Subpostmaster should ensure that the time for which customers wait to be served
is kept to the minimum, and make any adjustments to the staffing pattern accordingly.
To help achieve this objective Subpostmasters in offices displaying the charter,
particularly those in larger offices, will be encouraged to monitor waiting times using
the system developed by POCL.

94 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/129
—
POL00422653
POL00422653

i

Ore re rrr cress

This entails counting the number of customers queuing and the number of clerks
serving, three times a day and to supply the information to POCL to enable the
results to be analysed and fed back to the Subpostmaster.

While POCL has an overall national objective for customers to wait for no longer than
five minutes before being served, it is recognised that customers have different needs
and expectations of waiting time in different offices, and at different times of the day
or week. However, Regional General Managers will treat very seriously any evidence
which suggests that the Subpostmaster is not making all reasonable efforts to ensure

that customer waiting time is minimised, to meet the needs of customers locally.

TRANSACTIONS

The Subpostmaster will be responsible for ensuring that transactions are carried out
accurately, that all reasonable steps are taken to prevent fraud and that all
documentation is properly completed and despatched at the due time. Where under
the terms of its contracts with its clients Post Office Counters Ltd incurs financial
penalties as a result of the Subpostmaster’s failure in this regard, Post Office Counters
Ltd may pass on this additional cost to the Subpostmaster. The Appendix to this
Section sets out the current maxima of the penalties which can be passed on to the
Subpostmaster. In such circumstances, Post Office Counters Ltd will furnish copies of
the appropriate documents as evidence in support of any action. Failure to properly
complete accounting and traffic information documents may lead to the exclusion in

whole or in part of business transacted for the purposes of determining payment.

The Subpostmaster will ensure that customers are treated fairly, courteously and
helpfully. Persistent failure to meet the high standard of service demanded by Post

Office Counters Ltd could result in termination of contract.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

95 Issue
September 1994

©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/130
POL00422653

POL00422653
QUALITY STANDARDS
SUBPOSTMASTER ERRORS: MAXIMUM PENALTIES
Maximum Penalty
() British Telecom I
Late despatch of BT Bills with due account to cut off times £10 (per summary
and where this is demonstrably the fault of the form)
Subpostmaster. I
(2) Girobank ]
2.1 Error notices issued in respect of PDR (G.6301/G.6302) £23.54 (per error
transactions, Community Charge (G6403) transactions, notice) 1
Green/Violet Girocheques (G6305/7) transactions. 1
2.2 Cashing other Bank’s Cheques: Fraud Losses 1
POCL bears in full losses from fraudulently encashed ‘other bank’s cheques’
where these cheques have been accepted incorrectly (e.g. no cheque card number 1
written on back of cheque). Recompense may be sought towards losses incurred. '
(3) DVLA (MVL Offices) only i
License issued early £8.50 per licence
Incorrect Licence issued £8.50 per licence I
Lost tax discs(where Subpostmaster failed to safeguard The six-monthly
properly) rate of duty for ]
private and light
goods vehicle 1
chargeable at the
time of loss. ]
(4) _ Department of National Savings I
DNS may seek recompense from POCL for fraud losses, ]
where error by Subpostmaster had led to payments which
should not have been made. For example:- 1
a) Where a stop payment has been ignored. ]
b) Where a forged date stamp intpression is a bad one.
c) Where pass book entries have been blatantly altered. ]
a) Where the wrong balance figures have been entered.
Again, depending on the circumstances, a contribution can
be sought towards losses incurred. J

END

% Issue
September 1994 ‘
©Copyright reserved j

J

D2.1/6/131
—
POL00422653
POL00422653

~

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 23

REDEMPTION OF TELEPHONE, TELEVISION, MOTOR VEHICLE AND OTHER
SAVINGS STAMPS

1. A Subpostmaster must only accept savings stamps either in total or part payment for

the relevant transaction to which they refer.

2. Itis TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE for a Subpostmaster (or anybody acting on his
behalf) to:-

() exchange redeemed savings stamps for cash;

i (ii) _ affix savings stamps to savings cards and claim them as if they had been

redeemed by a customer in the normal course;

iy (ii) convert total of partial cash or cheque payments for licence or accounts

payments into stamps and claim them as if they had been presented by a

customer;
iH (iv) convert official cash (whether directly from the till or paid in over the counter)
L into savings stamps (whether affixed to a card or not) for use as a means of
v saving for any purpose whatsoever; or to take action which improperly sets out

to increase his remuneration.

3. Redeemed savings stamps must be despatched immediately following completion of
the cash account on which the transaction to which they refer takes place. It is not
acceptable to remit redeemed savings stamps later than the scheduled despatch date

or to remit several weeks redemption together.

In the event that cases of falsification come to light Post Office Counters Ltd will view
such activities extremely seriously and in such circumstances almost certainly

Consider termination of the Subpostmasters Contract for services.

END

97 Issue

September 1994

©Copyright reserved

L

D2.1/6/132

POL00422653

POL00422653
i]
q
1
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD 1
‘SECTION 24 SUBPOSTMASTER CONTRACT i
MAILWORK 1
i
GENERAL i
1. This contract is between Post Office Counters Limited (POCL) and the Subpostmaster of 1
in respect of the i
1.1 provision of sorting facilities, and supervision of Postmen for both delivery and collection of 1
mails, known hereinafter as Mailwork.
i
12 The specifications given at APPENDICES 1-3 of this section explain more fully the I
requirements on the Subpostmaster and Royal Mail in the provision of Mailwork. 1
This Mailwork contract does nat affect the Subpostmaster’s obligations and entitlements under t
a contract for services with POCL to provide counter services. I
I
ACCOMMODATION AND FITTINGS I
2. The Subpostmaster agrees to provide and maintain such accommodation as is required for the I
effective discharge of Mailwork duties. In fulfilling this requirement, the Subpostmaster will be I
responsible for meeting the provisions of all relevant legislation (in particular HASAW) and '
where Post Office staff work on the premises specifically provide:
I
24 Access to toilet facilities.
2.2 Facilities for washing, including a supply of hot water.
2.3 Hat and coat pegs.
24 Facilities for making tea.
25 Adequate lighting.
2.6 Adequate heating; and
27 Adequate ventilation.
98 Issue
Noveinber 1995
Copyright reservedt
D2.1/6/133

————————————
POL00422653
POL00422653

Where provision of relevant legislation or requirements introduced by the Post Office after the

appointment of the Subpostmaster call for changes in the accommodation provided by the
r Subpostmaster, the Post Office will pay 100% of the costs involved in effecting the required
changes. A proportion of the costs is returnable should the Subpostmaster relinquish his/her

appointment within 4 years of the work being carried out

The Post Office will make available fittings designed specifically for Mailwork use at no cost to
the Subpostmaster. In certain circumstances, Subpostmasters may purchase other surplus

equipment by local arrangement from Royal Mail.

ATTENDANCE

3. The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the office personally. Where he decides to absent

himself he must appoint a substitute who shall be sufficiently well versed to carry out the

responsibilities of the Subpostmaster and who is acceptable to the Royal Mail and Post Office

Counters Ltd, However, a Subpostmaster’s responsibility for the proper conduct of Mailwork

: duties is in no way diminished by his non-attendance. In either case, the Subpostmaster will
: arrange for:
q
{ 3.1 the correct handling of value and other special items in accordance with regulations
1 advised from time to time.
{
3.2 the maintenance of statistical and management information systems as required for
{ .
i the effective provision of Mailwork in accordance with agreements reached with the

National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP).

‘ ACCESS TO PREMISES

4. The Subpostmaster will allow access to the area where sorting is performed at all times when
Mailwork is being carried out to any representative of the Post Office for the purpose of
inspection and procedural aud it. Visits to the area where sorting is performed outside hours
when it is in use will be by appointment at a time reasonable to both the Post Office and the
Subpostmaster.

Issue
Noveinber 1995
99 ‘©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/134
POL00422653

POL00422653
POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS
5, The Post Office for its part will provide for:
5.1 Training in all aspects of Mailwork to include not only new entrant training but also
on-going training.
5.2 Royal Mail will make available the conduct code applicable to their employees

working in the Mailwork office and will take appropriate action to ensure the
conduct code is followed in order to support the Subpostmaster.

5.3 Sufficient levels of operational and administrative support to allow the
Subpostmaster to fulfil his obligations under the terms of his contract.

54 The supply of soap and towels and toilet paper.
55 Fire fighting equipment. I
I
CHANGES TO FACILITIES ,
6. The Post Office will ensure that any changes to facilities or services will be subject to I
consultation with NFSP.
REMUNERATION

7. Remuneration for the facilities and services provided by the Subpostmaster will be paid in
accordance with the agreement that may be in force from time to time between the Post Office

and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters in respect of Mailwork.

WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK

8. Where Mailwork is withdrawn either in whole or in part a payment may be made.

Details of the conditions of such a payment appear at Appendix 4.
CHANGES IN CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
9. Any changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which are

agreed with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, will be communicated to

zr News” or by amendment to Postal

Subpostmasters either direct

Instructions

(APPENTYCES 1-4 FOLLOWS:

Issue
November 1996
100 OC opynaght reserved

D2.1/6/135

es
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

ACCOMMODATION SPECIFICATION

Current Health & Satety legislation requires that certain standards of accommodation are needed at
Mailwork Sub Post Offices. The following schedule outlines these standards by reference to
workplace regulation issued by Health and Safety Executive under section 16 of the Health and

Safety at Work Act 1974.

The determination of whether these standards are achieved at particular offices will be made, if
appropriate via Royal Mail (RM) carrying out risk assessments on accommodation used for
Mailwork. RM will communicate the results of risk assessments via Post Office Counters Ltd (POCL)
to the subpostmaster. Any action required as a consequence of the risk assessment will be agreed
between RM, POCL and the subpostmaster and all parties will use reasonable endeavours to ensure
that any such agreement is not unreasonably withheld.

In general terms any action required in respect of general maintenance or what can reasonably be
expected under the following paragraph A will be funded by the sub postmaster. Any action that can
reasonably be attributed to a past change in RM,s requirements or past changes in legislation will be

funded by RM.
Paragraph A

‘The subpostmaster agrees to provide and maintain such accommodation as is required for the
effective discharge of Mailwork duties. In fulfilling this requirement, the subpostmaster will be
responsible for meeting the provisions of all relevant legislation (in particular HASAW) and where
Post Office staff work on the premises specifically provide access to a toilet, facilities for washing,
including a supply of hot water, facilities for making tea, adequate lighting, adequate heating and

ventilation, hat and coat pegs.

The following specification represents guidelines. Their applicability in differing circumstances will
depend ona range of factors such as number of staff, duty structures, composition of staff etc. The

intent is to ensure that at the minimum the legislative requirements are met.

Issue
November 1995
101 ‘Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/136
POL00422653

POL00422653
APPENDIX 1
ACCOMODATION SPECIFICATION
GENERAL
General Health, Take measures to ensure, so far as it is reasonably practicable,the Workplace Reg 4
Safety & Welfare health, safety and welfare of people who use their premises. These
responsibilities measures should be intended to protect the health and safety of
everyone in the workplace, and to ensure that adequate welfare
facilities are provided for Royal Mail employees at work as detailed
below.
Display of Display suitably and prominently all relevant statutory Notices
statutory including the Health and Safety law notice and the Health and Safety
Notices. policy Abstract Notice.
WORK AREA
Space androom —_ Every room where persons work should have sufficient floor area, Workplace Reg 10
dimensions height and unoccupied space for purposes of health, safety and welfare.

Maintenance of
workplace and

The workplace and the equipment, devices and systems should be Workplace Reg 5
maintained.in an efficient state, in efficient working order and in good

equipment, repair. Where appropriate a suitable system of maintenance should be
devices and in place. Royal Mail will arrange for the maintenance of equipment
systems devices and systems provided by them. The subpostmaster will arrange
for premises maintenance in accordance with his/her contract.
Workstations Workstations should be suitable for the work and for persons working — Workplace Reg 11

and seating

there. Workstations should include, so far as reasonably practicable,
protection from adverse weather, arrangements for swift exit in an
emergency and arrangements to minimise risks of slipping or falling,
and seating suitable for the operation. Royal Mail will provide the
equipment necessary for its employees to undertake the tasks.

The subpostmaster will ensure that such equipment is used correctly
for the appropriate purposes.

CLEANLINESS

Cleanliness and
waste materials

The workplace and the future furnishings and fittings should be Workplace Reg 9
kept sufficiently clean. Surfaces of the floors, walls and ceilings

inside the building should be capable of being kept sufficiently clear.

Workplaces should be kept free of accumulation of waste material,

suitable waste receptacles should be provided.

WELFARE & SANITARY FACILITIES

Toilet facilities

RM staff should have ready access to toilet facilities. Provide Workplace Regs
suitable and sufficient water closets and urinal. Facilities should 20621

be appropriate for men and women. Facilities should be kept clean

and orderly and adequately ventilated and lit.

Supply towels or
dryers, toilet
paper, soap

Soap and hand cleanser should also be provided for RM staff at all Workplace Reg 20
times.as should toilet paper and towels or other hygenic means of
drying hands

Sanitary towel
disposal

Provide suitably mean tor disposal of sanitary towels where toilets Workplace Reg 27
are used by women

Issue

D2.1/6/137
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 1

Washing facilities Provide suitable and sufficient washing facilities, including clear

hot and cold running water, for Royal Mail Employees. Facilities
should be provided in the immediate vicinity of water closets and
urinals. Facilities should be appropriate for men and women. Facilities
should be kept clear, orderly and adequately ventilated and lit

Drinking water
supply

A supply of wholesome drinking water whould be provided and Workplace Reg 22
be readily accessible at all times. It should be clearly marked if

appropriate. Clean drinking cups or beakers should be available

unless the supply is from a drinking fountain.

Facilities for
' making tea and
coffee

Facilities for making tea and coffee should be provided and should Workplace Reg 25
be subject to routine safety tests carried out by Royal Mail.

Eating facilities

Provided the mail preparation work area or kitchen is kept in a clean Workplace Reg 25
and hygienic condition, then this should adequately serve as a facility

to eat meals. There should be provision for ensuring food and

beverages are kept in a hygienic environment.

r Drying (room)
facilities

Provide facilities for the employees’ clothing to hang in a clean, dry, Workplace Reg 23
warm, well ventilated place where it can dry out in the course of a
working day if necessary.

Individual hat
and coat pegs or
lockers

Accommodation for hanging and storage of employees’ clothing Workplace Reg 23
should be provided; at minimum a separate hook or peg for each

worker. (it is desirable that individuals are able to secure their

belongings, so where an employee makes such a request,

space permitting, Royal Mail will provide a 3ft locker)

- = =

Safe access

Provide arrangements for safe access including swift exit in an emergency.

including

L passageways

0 Adequate lighting Provide suitable and sufficient lighting. This should be by natural Workplace Reg 8
‘ light so far as is reasonably practicable. Provide emergency lighting

E where sudden loss of light would presenta serious risk

Li Adequate Maintain workplace temperatures which provide reasonable comfort. _ Workplace Reg 7

I temperatures Use safe heating systems. Provide a thermometer in the workplace.

Rest facilities

Provide suitable and efficient facilities for rest. Workplace Reg 25
Provide suitable protection from discomfort caused by tobacco smoke.

Provide suitable and sufficient facilities to eat meals where they are

eaten regularly in the workplace.

Fire Precautions

Fire fighting
equipment,
alarm system,
evacuation drills

= ewe ewe Se eK

I

FIRE & SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS

Provide fire precautions as required by the relevant fire precautions and
regulations. Maintain fire escape minimum standards as defined by Royal Mail.

Maintain as a minimum, one water fire extinguisher.
These extinguishers must be checked annually and
arrangements should be made to ensure this happens

Issue
November 1996
©Copyright reserved
103 py

D2.1/6/138
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2

SUB-POSTMASTER SPECIFICATION

The following specification sets out the key outputs that Sub-postmasters must deliver in respect of

the undertaking of mailwork in sub post offices. It should be read in conjunction with the Royal Mail

Specification.

The phraseology uses the term “output”. This represents the achievement of an outcome for which
the Sub-postmaster is responsible. It does not necessarily mean that the Sub-postmaster has to
personally perform the task to deliver the output. For example, “RM employees briefed in
accordance with employee communication programme: does not necessarily mean that the Sub-
postmaster has to lead formal team briefing sessions. It will mean that the Sub-postmaster will be
responsible for distributing written briefing, facilitating team briefings lead by the RM line manager,

passing on urgent messages for, the line manager to RM employees.

There are a number of outputs, particularly in the Customer and Supervision areas, which cannot be
tightly defined and where an element of discretion is needed in determining the level of Sub-
postmasters involvement. In these cases a test of reasonableness applies. In general terms, Sub-
postmasters are expected to deal with issues that can easily be resolved on the spot. But there is no
requirement for them to leave the mailwork premises to do so. In all cases where Sub-postmasters are
unable to resolve issues or believe that resolution requires additional capability, such difficulties must

be referred to the RM Line Manager.

The detailed local arrangements as to how each output will be achieved at each office will be set out

in the Local Specification which will be agreed between Royal Mail, POCL and the Subpostmaster.

1 SUPERVISION

-RM employees adequately supervised at all times when on mailwork premises.
(NOTE: RM employees will be deemed to be adequately supervised if all the outputs in this

specification are achieved).

-Contact point provided for RM employees based at the mailwork office at all other times when they

are on duty.

-RM employees attendance checked (ie start and where appropriate finish times) and all unforeseen

absence reported to RM line manager.

Issue
November 1995
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/139
—4
L
BQ
I
J
L
Ly
L
A
Li
E

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2

-Staffing failures covered at minimum cost in accordance with contingency plan difficulties referred

to RM line manager.

-Indoor operational problems resolved where possible: difficulties referred to RM line manager
-Pressure overtime authorised and controlled in accordance with guidance from RM line manager.
-Overtime, Scheduled Attendance’s, allowances and Door to Door records certified.

-Reasonable actions taken to ensure RM employees comply with safety and security instructions.

2 CUSTOMER

-Information provided to RM Customer Care when requested (where Sub-postmaster can reasonably
be expected to have access to such information.)

-Customer complaints /enquiries dealt with where resolution is possible at local office level - any
difficulties referred to RM Customer Care or RM line manager:

-Local customer requirements met in accordance with processes set out in local specification.
-Local delivery problems with customers resolved (eg dangerous dogs) where resolution is possible
at local office level and in accordance with processes set out in local specification - any difficulties

referred to RM line manager.

- Positive approach to Customer First activity in the office (but no requirement for personal
attendance for Royal Mail Customer First Activity).

Positive approach to Royal Mail's image in the local community.
3 OPERATIONAL TASKS
Mail received and acknowledged

Signature and value items securely held and processed in accordance with product

Specification

Issue
November 1995
105 ©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/140
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2

Redirection instructions, special instructions, retention instructions issued to appropriate RM

employee

Door to Door managed in accordance with product specification and returns made

Response service items processed in accordance with product specification

Second pouch arrangements made in accordance with local specification

Keys securely held, issued and returned

Callers facilities provided (P739, Surcharges, PO Boxes) I
Uniforms, stores, forms, equipment ordered and issued

Letter box faults reported to RM line manager i
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION,

Attendance record completed

Work Load Assessment forms, completed by Postmen forwarded in accordance with

operational instructions.

Letter Information Systems and parcel sampling returns completed and forwarded in

accordance with operational instructions

Official Motor Vehicle mileage and fuel returns made

Drivers hours information supplied

Information provided in response to ad hoc requests subject to levels of reasonableness

Basic staff hours records completed

Issue
November 1995
©Copyright reserved

2.1/6/141
SSeS ee eee eee eee ee eB ee Be eB eB eB

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2

PERSONNEL

Annual leave selection managed and authorised in accordance with local

specifications

RM conduct code followed by RM employees - any failures by RM employees to meet RM
standards referred to RM line manager

Opportunity for input to sick absence, Non - Culpable Inefficiency, conduct code, welfare
interviews for RM employees; recruitment of permanent and temporary RM employees; trial

reports and appraisals, sick reports and appraisals

RM employee grievances resolved where this is possible at local office level - any serious

grievances referred to RM line manager

RM employee questions answered if within the knowledge of the Sub-postmaster - any

difficulties referred to RM line manager or appropriate support function
Late attendance reports completed

RM employees recognised in accordance with RM policy on recognition
Accident reports completed

RM employees briefed in accordance with employee communication processes as set out in

local specification
RM employee training needs identified and where appropriate referred to RM line manager
RM employees coached and trained in accordance with processes set out in local specification
TRANSPORT

Royal Mail vehicles parked securely in accordance with locally agreed arrangements

Fleet maintained, fuelled, and cleaned in accordance with local Royal Mail procedures

Issue
November 199
107 “Copyright reserved

2.1/6/142
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 2
Road Transport Act requirements met (Logbooks.Drivers hours; returns made)

Vehicle accident reports completed

Cycles and delivery aids kept securely and maintained in safe condition in accordance with

locally agreed arrangements

SAFETY

Hazard/safety checks carried out on mailwork premises

Health and Safety notices displayed

Adequate fire precautions - RM employees aware of precautions
Locally agreed disaster plan followed

First aid facilities available for use and maintained

SECURITY

Security of mail and equipment maintained in accordance with locally agreed

arrangements
Security procedures followed as per locally agreed arrangements

Security checks carried out as per locally agreed arrangements

Issue
November 1995
108 ©Copyright reserved

2.1/6/143
POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 3

L II

The following specification represents the key outputs that Royal Mail must deliver to enable the

Subpostmaster to meet the Subpostmaster Specification. It should be read in conjunction with the

Subpostmaster Specification.

The phraseology uses the term “output”.

Royal Mail is responsible. Where further definition is required (eg type of sorting fitting, level and

This represents the achievement of an outcome for which

detail of guidance and training) Royal Mail will determine what is necessary to achieve the Delivery

Specification and agree the details in the Local Specifications.

1

SUPERVISION
Information on RM employees, attendance times and duties provided
Contingency plan for office provided

Guidance provided to Subpostmaster and RM employees on completion of Overtime,

Scheduled Attendance, Allowances and Door to Door records.

Local specification (agreed with Subpostmaster and POCL)

Royal Mail contact point provided to which operational difficulties can be referred
CUSTOMER

RM Customer Care contact point provided

Guidance on meeting changes to customer requirements (unit specification)
Information on RM Customer First provided

Information on RM Mission and Values provided

Noven
109 “Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/144
we

POL00422653
POL00422653

APPENDIX 3
OPERATIONAL TASKS
Details of scheduled mail arrivals/tick list provided
Telephoned advice of late arrivals, or other operational changes
Guidelines and training for Subpostmaster and RM employees provided for all RM products
Second pouch arrangements specified
Key security system specified
Instructions provided for the ordering of uniforms, store, forms, equipment
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
Guidance provided on how Postmen complete Work Load Assessment forms
Guidance provided on completion of Letter Information Systems /parcel sampling returns
Guidance provided on completion of Official Motor Vehicle mileage and fuel returns
Guidance provided on Drivers hours information

Guidance provided on quality checks to be made

“RM contact point provided for all pieces of management information

PERSONNEL
Resourcing plan provided (annual leave)

Royal Mail conduct code made available and appropriate action taken by Royal Mail to

ensure conduct code is followed

Issue
November 1995

0 ©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/145
POL00422653

POL00422653

APPENDIX 3
Opportunity given to Subpostmaster to input relevant information regarding RM employees
in cases of Non - Culpable Inefficiency, welfare, sick absence, trial reports, retention,

appraisals

Opportunity given to Subpostmasters to attend selection interviews for RM employees at the

mailwork office

Opportunity given to Subpostmasters to attend at long service awards /retirement functions
RM contact points provided for all relevant Personnel issues relating to RM employees
Guidance provided-on completion of accident reports

RM recognition policy communicated

Guidance provided on training for RM employees (training plans)

Communications plan for RM employees in mailwork office provided

TRANSPORT

Agreed arrangements specified for secure parking of vehicles

Arrangements for maintainence, fuelling and cleaning of fleet specified

Guidance provided on Road Transport Act requirements

Guidance provided on completion of Vehicle Accident reports
Arrangements for secure keeping and maintainance of cycles and delivery aids specified

SAFETY
Safety instructions provided
Disaster plan specified

First aid training provided to postmen in line with legal Health and Safety requirements

m

D2.1/6/146
POL00422653

POL00422653
eee I
APPENDIX 3
SECURITY
Security instructions provided
Security measures specified
FACILITIES
Sorting fittings, stores cupboards/cabinets, soap /towels, toilet paper, fire fighting
equipment, first aid equipment provided
Issue
November 1995

©Copyright reserved
112

2.1/6/147
POL00422653

POL00422653

i
t

APPENDIX 4
'
I YMENT WAL OF MAILWORI
! Where the whole or part of either category of Mailwork carried out at a sub-office is withdrawn by
I Royal Mail or Royal Mail Parcelforce, the Subpostmaster will receive a lump sum, an amount
! equivalent to 1.5 times the consequential annual reduction in pay. The reduction in pay should take
1 effect from the date of the withdrawal of the work.

Where appropriate, the payment should take account of all regular payments including the effect of
any reduction in the 3% addition paid for minor items of work which attract no specific payment.

Regular and intermittent allowances should also be included in calculating the amount due.

If the withdrawal of Mailwork happens in stages, the Subpostmaster should receive a lump sum in
respect of the reduction on each occasion. In cases where there is simultaneous loss and gain of
Mailwork the lump sum payment should be calculated on any nett loss.

Payments should not be made where the change is due to variations in traffic.

At least three months’ notice, or payment in lieu of three months’ notice will be paid on withdrawal
of Mailwork, except in those cases where the Subpostmaster’s contract is summarily terminated or

where he resigns to avoid summary termination.

Payment for the loss of Mailwork will not be made where work is withdrawn at:-

1 the request of the Subpostmaster;
2. the time of summary termination or resignation to avoid summary termination;
3.

a minimum payment office which is already paid for more work than it carries out.
The annual revision date will be unaffected by withdrawal of Mailwork.

END

Noweiiber 1005,
13 Copyright reserved

2.1/6/148

MAILWORK INDEX

A
ACCOMODATION
MAILWORK 98
ALLOWANCES
MAILWORK WITHDRAWAL 113
ANNUAL REVISION 113
ATTENDANCE
AT SUB-OFFICE 99
Cc
CONTRACT
MAILWORK 98
POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS 100
TERMINATION 113
COUNTER NEWS 100
M
MAILWORK 98, 99, 113
N
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 100
MAILWORK AGREEMENTS 99
MAILWORK CHANGES. 100
MAILWORK REMUNERATION 100
fe)
PARCELFORCE 113
POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS 100
R
REMUNERATION 100
ROYAL MAIL 113
ROYAL MAIL DISTRICT OFFICE 99
T
TRAINING 100

114

POL00422653
POL00422653

Issue
November 1995
©Copyright reserved

D2.1/6/149
INDEX
A c
ABNORMAL CHANGE IN BUSINESS 9 _ ‘CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE 91
ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE 15 CANVASS 10, 80
ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY 15 ‘CARELESSNESS 49
ABSENCE ON TERRITORIAL TRAINING 15 CASH AND STOCK 48
ACCOMMODATION (CERTIFICATE OF AGE CONTRIBUTION 36
ALTERATIONS TO 54 (CHANGES IN NATIONAL INSURANCE STATUS 38
MAILWORK 98
PROVISION OF 1,53 CHRISTMAS AND NEW YEAR 19, 59
RESIDENTIAL 5S CLAIMS FOR REIMBURSEMENT 17
ADVERTISEMENTS 56 CLASSES OF WORK 2
ADVERTISING OF HOLIDAYS 59 COMMUNITY CHARGE. 3
ALLOWANCE DOCKETS 48 COMPENSATION 2
ALLOWANCES CONTRACT 1
ALTERATION OF ACCOMMODATION 54 ‘APPOINTMENT 2
‘CASH ALLOWANCES, 6 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS 4
HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE 16,17 DETERMINATION 2
FORCES RESERVE 20 MAILWORK 98
JURY SERVICE SUBSTITUTION 22 POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS 100
MAILWORK WITHDRAWAL 105 ‘TERMINATION 105
SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION ALLOWANCE 23, NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES 81
24,25 NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES 81
STATUTORY SICK PAY 26 PENALTIES 95
‘TELEPHONE CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE 91 PERSONAL SERVICE AT COUNTER 15
‘MAILWORK 92 PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 77
MULTIPLIERS 92 ‘SHORT CONTRACT WORKERS 29
VAT 93 STATUS1
ANNUAL LEAVE2 STATUTORY SICK PAY 27
TERMINATION
ANNUAL REVISION 6,7, 105 "APPEALS AGAINST 82
ANNUITIES 3 AS A RESULT OF DISHONESTY 83
NNULMENT: AS A RESULT OF FALSIFICATION 97
a 8 FORFEITED REMUNERATION 84
APPEALS 82 GUARANTEED MINIMUM PENSION 39
APPEALS AUTHORITY 82 MISUSE OF POCL CASH 47
AREA DELIVERY MANAGER 102 CONTRACTING OUT OF SERPS 35
ARMY 20 CONTROLLING CROWN OFFICE 92
ARREARS OF REMUNERATION 8, 37 CONVICTION 83
ARREST 83 ‘CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC 67
ASSISTANTS 61 ‘COUNTER NEWS 4, 6,16, 23, 101
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 6 COUNTS OF FOR REVISION 10
DISHONESTY 63 CRIMINAL CONDUCT 84
DUTIES3 CRIMINAL INTENT 85
LEGAL OBLIGATIONS 61 (CUSTOMER CHARTER 94
LOSSES 49
OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 65 (CUSTOMER FIRST 94
PERSONAL DECLARATION 63, 65, 66
POLITICAL ACTIVITIES 79
PROVISION OF 1 D
RECRUITMENT:
SEGNTRAMONG DATESTAMPS 48
SECURITY 48, DEATH OF SUBPOSTMASTERS 37
STATUS 61
UNS DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 32
UPTABLE PERSONS 64 DI H OF ACCOUNTS 19
ATTENDANCE ESPATC
ATSUB-OFFICE 99 DISHONESTY 85
FORCES RESERVE 20 DIVORCE 38
Heats DUAL EMPLOYMENT 32
INVESTIGATION DIVISION INTERVIEWS 87
JURY SERVICE 22 DUTIES3
MAILWORK 14
UBPOSTMASTERS OBLIGATION 1
TRAINING 94 E
PAYMENT 94
UNIT CREDITS 8 ERROR 49
EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS 31
B EXTENDED HOURS59

DANKNOGDR

NK HOLIDAYS 59
IG 78,

BLLINGUALSIGN. 53

BORROWING

AND
BRIS TE LENDING MONEY 80

LECOM 92

BURGLARY 49

15

POL00422653
POL00422653

D2.1/6/150
FE

POL00422653
POL00422653

INDEX

N

FILLING AND CLEARING OF STAMP-SELLING MACHINES 3

FINANCIAL PENALTIES 95

FORM P13 63,65,66

FORM P2340 AND P2340(A) 18,20,25
FORM P250 62

FORM P2639 19

FORM P301 65,66

FORM P45 34

FORM RD950 37

FORM SSP1 31,32

FRAUD 50

FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS 86

G

GAMBLING 78
GIROBANK 3
GOVERNMENT STOCK 3

HL

HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORKACT 1974 56
HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION SCHEME 37

HOURS OF OPENING 58

HOUSING BENEFIT 26

L_

ILLEGAL BUSINESS 57

ILLNESS 23

IMMORALITY 8&3

INCOME TAX 26,34

INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES 84
INVALIDITY BENEFIT 29

INVESTIGATION DIVISION 83,85,86,88

L

JURY SERVICE 22

L

LEAFLET NI217 34

LEAFLET NI92 39

LEAFLET NP15 35

LEGAL CUSTODY 27,30
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 68
LETTER BOX 53

LOCAL HOLIDAYS 59

LOCAL TAXATION LICENCES 3
LOSSES 49,50

LOTTERIES 78

M

MAILS 3

MAILWORK 2,3,56,92,98-114
MARRIAGE 38

MEDICAL CERTIFICATE 24
MIMIMUM PAYMENT 5

MINIMUM PAYMENT SUB-OFFICES 9

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS 81
ASSISTANCE WITH APPEALS 82
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 4,101
INVESTIGATION DIVISION INTERVIEWS 87
MAILWORK AGREEMENTS 99
MAILWORK CHANGES 100
MAILWORK REMUNERATION 100
OPERATIONAL INSTRUCTIONS 4
PRIVATE BUSINESS 80
SPOKESMEN 67
STATUTORY SICK PAY 27
SUBSTITUTION 17
UNIT CREDITS, CHANGES TO 5

NATIONAL INSURANCE 3,34

NATIONAL LOTTERY 77

NEGLIGENCE 49

NEW CLASS OF BUSINESS 9

NHS MATERNITY GRANT 24

NOTICE 33

NOTICES 54

NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS 31

ce)

OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS BOARD 35,
OFFICES, SHOPS AND RAILWAYS ACT 1963 56
OFFICIAL INFORMATION 65

OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 65

OPERATIONAL RULES 3

OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK 64
OVERPAYMENTS 18

OVERSEAS PARCELS 3

P

PAID VOUCHERS 48

PARCELFORCE 102,105

PENSION 2

PENSION ALLOWANCES 3

PERIOD OF INCAPACITY 27

PERSONAL CONDUCT 83

POID 84

POLICE 49

POLITICAL ACTIVITIES 79

POST OFFICE AND TELEGRAPH ACTS 65
POST OFFICE BUSINESS 3

POST OFFICE DISCIPLINE CODE 100
POST OFFICE STAFF SUPERANNUATION SCHEME 35
POST OFFICE STOCK 47

POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS 3,101

POSTAL ORDERS 3,48

POSTAL PACKETS 77

PREGNANCY 30

PREMISES 53

PREMIUM SAVINGS BONDS 3
PREPERATION OF CASH ACCOUNTS 19
PRIVATE BUSINESS 56

PROSECUTION 47

PUBLIC RELATIONS DEPARTMENT 66
PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION 67
PUBLICITY 54

116
D2.1/6/151
POL00422653
POL00422653

INDE

Q T

QUALITY OF SERVICE 103 TELEPHONE ACCOUNTS 3

QUALITY STANDARDS %4 ‘TELEPHONE FACILITIES 90
TELEVISION LICENCES 3

R ‘TEMPORARY CLOSURE 8

TENANCY 53

THEFT 49, 85

RE-MARRIAGE38
REDEEMED SAVINGS STAMPS 97 ‘TRADBDSPUTESO
REDUCED RATE NICONTRIBUTIONS 36

TRAINING 100
REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER 4, 9, 24, 28, 33, 34,39, 3
'47, 48, 49, 50, 54,58, 62, 64, 66,68, 81, 84, 90 ‘TREATMENT OF POSTAL PACKETS,

REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGERS 19, 23, 55, 59
REGIONAL GENERAL MANGER31 U

REHABILITATION OF OFFENDERS ACT 1974 62 ‘UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT 29
‘REIMBURSEMENT 16, 18, 24, 90 UNITSCALE6
REMUNERATION 2, 5,100 ‘USE OF POST OFFICE NAME79
REMUNERATION REVISIONS 5, 9
RESIGNATION 2, 33 Vv
RESTRICTIONS 76

RETAIL NETWORK MANAGER 50, 81 VACANCY NOTICE 2
RETIREMENT 33, 38 VOUCHERS FOR PAYMENTS 48
ROYAL AIR FORCE 21

ROYAL MAIL 105 WwW

ROYAL MAIL DSTRICT OFFICE 99, 102
ROYAL MAIL STAFF 102
ROYALNAVY 21

WAITING TIMES 94
WIDOWS BENEFIT 36
WIDOWHOOD 38
WITHDRAWAL OF SERVICES 2
Ss

SAFETY 55,104

SALE OF POSTAGESTAMPS 3

SAVING CERTIFICATES3

SAVINGS BANK 3

SAVINGS STAMPS3

SCALE PAYMENT 6,37

‘SEARCHES 88

‘SEASON SUB-OFFICES 9

‘SECURITY 47, 48, 54, 57,104

SECURITY SCREEN 53

SEVERE DISABLEMENT ALLOWANCE 29

‘SHORT CONTRACT WORKERS 29

SICK ABSENCE SCHEME 15

SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION 37

‘SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION ALLOW ANCE 23

I SICK LEAVE 2

I

SICKNESS BENEFIT 24, 26, 29
SOCIAL SECURITY 26
SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1975 35
STANDARD HOURS 58

I ‘STANDING FOR PARLIAMENT 79

I STATE MATERNITY ALLOWANCE 29
STATE PENSION AGE. 28

\ STATUTORY SICK PAY 26
SUB-OFFICE CASH AND STOCK 47

I SUBPOSTMASTER’S STATUS 26

SUBPOSTMISTRESS 1, 24,30

L SUBSTITUTION 15, 94
SURPLUSES 49

: SUSPENSION 38, 83

SUSPENSION OF BUSINESS 8

uN7
2.1/6/152

