POL00048272
POL00048272

Post Office Ltd Confidential

Juliette McFarlane
Criminal Law Team

POLTD/0607/0108 North Bransholme
Branch Code 174 321 —Janet Louise SKINNER
Branch Loss £59,216,43

As discussed today on the telephone, I am forwarding the committal papers in respect of Janet
Skinner who is due to appear at Hull Magistrates on December 12" 2006

I have contacted Joanne Wisker, Temporary Subpostmisstress at North Bransholme Post Office to
ascertain the details surrounding the suspension of Wendy Lyell, who is a witness in the case
against Miss Skinner. This following a loss at the branch of £2,896.44.

Mrs Wisker, who also owns Chanterlands Ave Post Office, was contacted by a member of staff as
they were concerned over the movement of £2,000 between individual stock units. It appears Mrs
Lyell contacted a colleague, Avril and said she had removed £2,000 out of her individual sealed
stock unit pouch as she was concerned over running out of cash before the remittance into the
branch was received. Mrs Lyell added that she would return the cash today, which was her next
schedule day on duty.

Mrs Wisker stated she arrived at the branch this morning and spoke with Mrs Lyell. It is unclear if
and when the conversation between Mrs Lyell and Avril took place. However when Mrs Wisker
checked Avril’s stock unit, it shows a loss of £2,000.

There was an issue over a bag of £2 coins totalling £500 and some lottery figures that had not
been placed through Horizon. This resulted in a loss on Mrs Lyell’s stock unit of £896.44 during
this week. Mrs Lyell informed Mrs Wisker that she could not find the bag of coins and she thinks
she may have given them to a Giro customer in error.

The situation at the present time is that Mrs Lyell has been suspended from her duties pendinc
further checks being undertaken by Mrs Wisker. There are some other minor aspects that concern
Mrs Wisker, mainly surrounding the lack of communication on losses from Mrs Lyell who was
undertaking the role of Officer in Charge at North Bransholme. Mrs Wisker believes the £2,000
was a loss which occurred prior to this week and was being hidden in the accounts. Mrs Wisker
does visit the branch regularly and checks stocks however, these visits are always prearranged
with Mrs Lyell having prior knowledge of which stock units were to be checked.

Mrs Wisker has a number of areas to check and verify information. She is to keep me informed
ith any relevant finding which I will re'ay to yourself.

Investigation Manager
24" November 2006

DI Capstan House, 35 Broadway, Salford Quays, Manchester, M41 6FW

Post Office Ltd Confidential
