POL00121810
POL00121810

From: Dave Posnettti’
Sent: Fri 27/04/2012 10:44:03 AM (UTC)
To:

; Kevin Ryanf.
4]; Suzanne

; Allison
im

Subject: FW: Case Compliance
Attachment: Compliance 2012-2013.zip
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image009.jpg
Attachment: image007.jpg
Attachment: image018.jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image007 jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image008.jpg
All,

The compliance checks on submitted offender interview case files will continue in 2012/2013.

Associated are all the supporting documents needed, which have been amended where appropriate.

I suggest these are referred to when you have time and/or when submitting an offender interview case file.
Some salient points and changes are summarised as follows, to take effect immediately where applicable;

* The timescales for submitting case files have increased from 12 working days to 15 working days (as a
maximum). This addresses the current lack of Security Managers, the impact on those assisting (extra
travelling, overnight stays, accrued TOIL, etc). This impact will continue for some time, even when new recruits
are in post. The increase to 15 working days (or 3 working weeks), coupled with continued use of the typing
facility, is considered fair in dealing with the current resource issues.

* Some scores have decreased and some have increased. Areas where there have been prevalent failings or
where it is considered that more importance or emphasis is needed have increased scores, whereas areas
deemed less significant have decreased scores. Please see Appendix 1 (Compliance Form) for all the relevant
scores available in future.

* All references to ‘Royal Mail’ have been replaced with ‘Post Office Ltd’. These include document references,
GS forms becoming POL forms and ‘Royal Mail Group Criminal Law Team’ becoming ‘Post Office Ltd Legal &
Compliance Team’.

* The Discipline Report template has been changed. Superfluous information for Contract Managers (e.g
Identification Code, HR printout at Appendix C, etc) has been removed. Also, areas of previous contention or
concern (such as ‘To be prosecuted by’, ‘Designated Prosecution Authority’, etc) has been removed. This is a
disciplinary report and no decisions have been made regarding any prosecution.

* The aim will again be to conduct a minimum of 2 compliance checks per individual and attain a 90% average
score across the team by year end. For info, the average score last year was 92.16%.

* Compliance checks will be lapsed for now and re-commence at the beginning of July. This will facilitate the
arrival of new recruits and any associated training, but will also provide some flexibility in managing workloads
for those impacted in the next couple of months. Casework will still continue to monitor the reporting timescales
to ensure we meet our stakeholder obligations.
POL00121810
POL00121810

This communication has been sent out now to inform you in advance of the changes in compliance and provide you
with the information needed on re-commencement of the compliance checks.

Regards,

hi ya

@

Dave Posnett

Accredited Financial Investigator
Security Operations Team

Post Office Ltd

© . x Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ.

‘THINK BEFORE
YOU PRINT

Confidential Information
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
