POL00000246
POL00000246

Community
Subpostmasters
Contract
POL00000246
POL00000246
Agency Contract
Amendments
Community

Contract

Communication from Post Office Ltd (04/11/02)

Specific changes by Contract Type (04/11/02)

Section 2, October 2004, Remuneration

Section 19, 1 August 2004, Savings Stamps

Section 17, 1 April 2005, Telephone Facilities

Section 13, 23 Sept 2005, Restrictions

Section 8A, 31 July 2006, Safeguarding of the Mail

Section 11, 31 July 2006, Assistants

Section 12, 31 July 2006, Divulgence of Official Information

coco oO OO CO Se

Community 04.07.06

POL00000246
POL00000246

POL00000246

PoLoo000246

Changes to Agents’ Contracts. All Subpostmasters Contract,
Community Subpostmasters Contract and Modified Subpostmasters
Contract branches
As a consequence of the recent change of business name, from Post Office
Counters Ltd to Post Office Limited, some of the references in the standard
Subpostmasters Contract, Community Subpostmasters Contract and Modified
Subpostmasters Contract no longer apply. The following tables list the
changes, which have been made to the various documents.
This communication should be retained with your contract for services for
future reference. Similarly the associated Appendices 1,2 and 3 should be
retained as they replace the appendices found in Section 16 of the
Subpostmasters, Section 12(M) of the Modified, and Section 12 of the
Community Contracts respectively.
Please note that neither the fundamental relationship, nor any of the
substantial terms and conditions of the documents are affected by this change
of company name.
Should you have any questions about these changes please write to me at
the address below.
Paul Williams
Agency Contracts Analyst
Post Office Limited
Lyceum Building
1 Bold Street
LIVERPOOL
L14HQ
GENERAL CHANGES - throughout whole of each contract
— “Post Office Counters Ltd/POCL” “Post Office Limited”
— “Post Office Counters” “Post Office”
~  *a/another/other [sub] Post Office(s)” “a/another/other Post Office branch(es)”
— “post office business” “Post Office business”
_— “Post Office “Post Office Limited

funds/money/cash/property/papers/ funds/money/cash/property/ papers/

documents/stock” documents/stock”

“Post Office Limited
funds/money/cash/property/ papers/
documents/stock”

= “Post Office Counters Ltd funds/money/cash/
property/papers/ documents/stock”

4/11/2002
Specific changes by contract type and section

Subpostmasters
Contract ref.

Modified
Subpostmasters.
Contract ref.

Community
Subpostmasters
Contract ref.

Amendments

Section 2, para. 22
Section 2(a), para.
18:

Not applicable

Not applicable

Words “...submitted via the Regional General Manager to Post Office Counters Business
Headquarters...” should be changed to: “...submitted to Post Office Ltd...”

Section 4, para. 11
and Section 8,
para. 14

Section 5 (M),
para 14:

Section 3, para 8
and section 4
para 14:

Reference to “the Post Office” and “Post Office” should be to “Royal Mail Group pic”

Section 10, para.
4:

Section 4(M) para
4:

Section6, para 4

Words: “employees of Post Office Counters Ltd” should read “employees of Royal Mail Group plc”
and words “Post Office Staff Superannuation Scheme” should read: “ any of Royal Mail's
occupational pension schemes”

Section 11, para.

Section 8(M),

Section 7, para

Reference to “Post Office Group Treasury” should read “Royal Mail Group Treasury”.

5.1: para 5.1 51
Section 11, para. Section 8(M), Section7, para 6 Details of Post Office Counters Ltd Agent should be changed to the following:
6: para 6

“Post Office Ltd Agent, (Group Treasury), Rowland Hill House, Boythorpe Road
CHESTERFIELD, Derbyshire S49 1HQ”

Section 13, para.
9:

Not applicable

Not applicable

Reference to “Post Office employees” should be changed to “Royal Mail employees”.

Section 13, para
12:

Not applicable

Section 9, para 6

References to “the Post Office” should be changed to “Post Office Ltd”.

Section 15, para.
6(c), para. 12 and

Section 10(M),
para 6(c) and

Section 11, para
6(c), para 12 and

References to “the Post Office” should be to “Royal Mail Group plc or any of its predecessors”.

para. 14: para 12 para 14
Section 16, para. Section 12(M), Section 12, para New form P13 attached.
3a para 3(a) 3(a)

Section 16, para.
4:

Section 12(M),
para 4

Section 12, para 4

Reference to a “Post Office employee” should be to a “Royal Mail employee”

Section 16, para. 5

Section 12(M),
para 5

Section 12, para 5

All references to “the Post Office” should be changed to “ each of Royal Mail Group pic and Post
Office Ltd”

Section 16, para.6

Section 12(M)
para.6

Section 12 para 6

All references to “ the Post Office” should be changed to “ Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group plc.

4/11/02

POL00000246

9¢Z0000010d
Specific changes by contract type and section

Subpostmasters I Modified Community Amendments
Contract ref. Subpostmasters I Subpostmasters
Contract ref. Contract ref.
Section 16, Section 12(M), Section 12, New appendices 1,2 and 3 attached.

Appendices 1, 2
and 3:

Appendices 1, 2
and 3:

Appendices 1, 2
and 3:

Section 17, para.

Section 13(M),

Section 13, para

The words: “the Post Office” should read: “ either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group pic”

10(b): para 10(b) 10(b)

Section 17, para. Section 13(M), Section 13, para The words: “in the Post Office” should read: “ by either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group pic”
14: para 14 14

Section 17, para. Section 13(M), Section 13, para. I References to “Post Office employee(s)” should read as follows: “employee(s) of “ either Post
15 and para. 16 para. 15 and 15 and para. 16 Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group pic”

and Section 18, para. 16 and and Section 14, Reference to “Post Office duties” in para 16 should read “duties for Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail

para. 2:

Section 14(M),
para. 2:

para. 2:

Group plc”

Section 18: Section 14(M): Section 14: Words: “outside the Post Office” should read “ outside either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group
Heading and para. I Heading and Heading and pic”
6: para. 6: para. 6: “Post Office papers” should read “Post Office Ltd papers”

Section 19, paras.
3,7 and 11:

Section 15(M),
paras. 3, 7 and
41:

Section 15, paras.

3, 7 and 11:

References to “the Post Office”, “should read “either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group pic”

Section 19, paras.
7,10 and 17:

Section 15(M),
paras. 7, 10 and
17:

Section 15, paras.

7, 10 and 17

References to “Post Office employee/property” should be to: “employee/property of “either Post
Office Ltd or Royal Mail Group pic”.

Paragraph 7 — reference to “the Post Office” should read “either Post Office Ltd or Royal Mail
Group plc”

Section 20, para.
3:

Section 16(M),
para. 3:

Section 16(M),
para. 3:

Reference to “the Post Office” should be to “Post Office Ltd”.

Section 21, para.
10:

Not applicable

Section 17, para.
10:

Reference to “The Post Office” should be to “Post Office Ltd”.

Section 24:

Not applicable

Not applicable

All references to “Post Office”, or “the Post Office” should be changed to “Royal Mail Group plc”.
Paragraph 2 - reference to “Post Office staff” should read “Royal Mail staff”
Paragraph 3 — reference to “the Royal Mail” should read “Royal Mail Group pic”

4/11/02

POL00000246

9¢Z0000010d
SUBPOSTMASTER’S CONTRACT VARIATION OCT 2004

Post Office Ltd

Section 2 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract

REMUNERATION
GENERAL

1. A Subpostmaster is paid according to the amount of work which is
transacted at his sub Post Office® branch. All remuneration is in respect of
the provision of Post Office® services.

FREQUENCY OF PAYMENT

2. Remuneration is paid monthly, by bank credit transfer, during the
period of the Subpostmaster’s appointment, in accordance with the provisions
of the remuneration booklets referred to below.

COMMERCIAL BRANCHES AND SMALL BRANCHES

3.1. The method of calculating a Subpostmaster’s remuneration will depend
on whether his sub Post Office® branch is designated by Post Office Ltd from
time to time as either a Commercial Post Office® branch or a Small Post
Office® branch in accordance with the provisions of the remuneration
booklets issued by Post Office Ltd from time to time for each category of
branch.

3.2 The remuneration system applicable to Subpostmasters of each
category of branch are set out in these remuneration booklets. The
remuneration booklets also contain the rates of remuneration applicable to
each category of branch.

3.3 Post Office Ltd may revise the remuneration rates set out in the
remuneration booklets (in whole or in part) from time to time following
[consultation with the National Federation of Subpostmasters. Any such
revisions will be communicated to Subpostmasters.

3.4. Post Office Ltd may also revise other parts of the remuneration
booklets (including the definitions of Commercial and Small Post Office®
branches and the remuneration system applicable to them) from time to time,
following negotiation with the National Federation of Subpostmasters. Any
such revisions will be communicated to Subpostmasters. Where appropriate,
revised versions of the booklets will be distributed to Subpostmasters.

POL00000246
POL00000246
3.5 The remuneration booklets (and any revisions to them) form part of the
Subpostmaster’s Contract.

SEASONAL SUB POST OFFICE ® BRANCHES

4. Where a sub Post Office® branch is regularly open for part of the year
only, remuneration will be paid for the period of opening only.

SUBPOSTMASTER’S PERSONAL BUSINESS

5. Full credit is normally allowed for the personal Post Office® business of
a Subpostmaster and members of his household, but Post Office Ltd reserves
the right to withhold credit for part of such business at its discretion.

PROHIBITIONS

6. The delivery of stamps or postal orders or other items of business at
the premises of persons, firms or companies is forbidden. Remuneration may
be withheld in respect of any business obtained by a Subpostmaster in breach
of this clause.

QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION

7 If a Subpostmaster considers that the provisions of this Section have
not been correctly applied in the case of his branch he should contact the
People and Organisation Service Centre on}

END

POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246

Notice of Subpostmaster’s Contract and Community Subpostmaster’s Contract
Variation

Post Office Ltd will introduce a new Post Office® saving stamp on 16 August 2004. The
introduction by Post Office Ltd of the saving stamp to the list of Post Office® products and
services to be provided in the course of a Post Office® business will require a variation to be
made to the provisions of Section 23 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and Section19 of the
Community Subpostmaster’s Contract (which Sections are identical in content).

Therefore, in accordance with Section 1, Paragraph 18 of

(i) the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and

(ii) the Community Subpostmaster’s Contract

(which enable changes to be made to the relevant Contract),

as of 1 August 2004, Section 23 of the Subpostmaster’s Contract, and Section 19 of the
Community Subpostmaster’s Contract, will bevaried as follows:

(a) the following words should be added to the end of Paragraph 1:
“...except in the case of Post Office® saving stamps which may be
accepted for all Post Office® goods and services, and any other goods
and services that the Subpostmaster has, at his/her own discretion,
decided to allow.”; and

(b) the following words should be added to the end of part (i) of Paragraph 2:
“,..except in the case of Post Office® saving stamps and only then where

the Subpostmaster is paying change for a purchase made using the Post
Office® saving stamps and the amount of such change is under £5.00.”

Post Office Ltd

July 2004
POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 21 Subpostmasters Contract / SECTION 17 Community Subpostmasters
Contract

Telephone facilities at sub Post Office® Branches

The Official Branch Telephone Line

1 A Subpostmaster must arrange for the provision of suitable telephone
facilities at his sub Post Office branch to meet the needs of the official business of
Post Office Ltd and the requirements of security. These telephone facilities are
known as “The Official Branch Telephone Line”.

2. Where possible, The Official Branch Telephone Line must be provided by BT
in order that Post Office Ltd may use the line for the Post Office Ltd Asymmetric
Digital Subscriber Line [ADSL] service.

3 Where a BT line is installed the Horizon equipment or any future
replacement for the Horizon equipment or any official Post Office Ltd equipment as
Post Office Ltd may from time to time specify will be connected to the Master Line
Box at the sub Post Office branch and will utilise the Post Office Ltd ADSL service
that runs over The Official Branch Telephone Line.

4. Where it is not possible to install a BT line the Horizon equipment or any
future replacement for the Horizon equipment or any official Post Office Ltd
equipment as Post Office Ltd may from time to time specify will continue to utilise
the ISDN line connected to the sub Post Office branch and/or The Official Branch
Telephone Line.

5. Whether The Official Branch Telephone is provided by BT or by another
telecommunications service provider the operational and security needs of Post
Office Ltd must at all times take precedence in terms of the use made of The Official
Branch Telephone Line. Where these needs conflict with the private use by the
Subpostmaster of The Official Branch Telephone Line, the Subpostmaster must.
cease such private use.

6. Provided that the requirements of paragraphs 1 to 5 above are met:

a) the Subpostmaster may utilise The Official Branch Telephone Line for
private purposes in addition to official Post Office Ltd purposes, and

b) The Subpostmaster may order the addition of extra services for The Official
Branch Telephone Line from the telecommunications service provider of that
line.

In either circumstance it is the responsibility of the Subpostmaster to pay for the
installation and operation of any additional services or use

POL00000246
POL00000246
7. Should the Subpostmaster wish to make use of his rights under paragraph 6
above, he or she must first seek Post Office Ltd’s agreement to any such changes by
contacting the NBSC. Only changes authorised by Post Office Ltd may be
introduced

8. Any movement of or changes to any of the telephone or other
communications equipment at the sub Post Office branch that are the result of
changes initiated by the Subpostmaster, including but not limited to refurbishment
or re-location of the branch, will be the responsibility of the Subpostmaster. The
Subpostmaster will be responsible for ordering and paying for the movement or
changes from the telecommunication service provider.

9. Post Office Ltd reserves the right to amend and update the requirements of
this section in the future should the operational and security needs of Post Office
Ltd require such a change.

10. I The Subpostmaster agrees to co-operate with Post Office Ltd in relation to
the installation at the sub Post Office branch of any other forms of communications
equipment or data links to be used for the purposes of conducting the official
business of Post Office Ltd.

Provision of the Official Branch Telephone Line
11 The Subpostmaster must provide
(a) a direct exchange line; or

(b) an extension plan installation comprising a portable telephone and
two sockets: one to be installed in the sub-post office and the other in
the Subpostmaster’s bedroom. (This type of installation is only
required where POL considers it is desirable, as a security Measure,
and where the Subpostmaster resides on the premises. However, Post
Office Ltd will not require this type of system to be installed at island
and small rural offices where Post Office Ltd considers that the risk of
criminal attack is clearly negligible).

12. The Subpostmaster’s requirement to provide The Official Branch Telephone
Line may be discharged in the following ways:

12.1 By transferring responsibility for and ownership of the BT line at the
sub Post Office branch to Post Office Ltd. Under this arrangement, Post
Office Ltd becomes responsible to BT for the line rental and for the cost of
official calls made by the Subpostmaster. Private calls made by the
Subpostmaster are his or her responsibility and BT will invoice him or her
directly for such calls. This arrangement is known as “Split Billing”. As Post
Office Ltd pays BT directly for the official use of this line the Subpostmaster
incurs no telephone costs for the provision of The Official Branch Telephone
Line and has no need to reclaim such costs from Post Office Ltd

POL00000246
POL00000246
As BT provides the Official Branch Telephone Line under this option, it meets
the requirements of the Post Office Ltd ADSL service. It is the simplest and
preferred option

Subpostmasters who sign a novation accepting the transfer of the line to
Post Office Ltd are deemed to have accepted this option. Once this option
has been accepted it cannot be reversed. New Subpostmasters who take up
appointment at sub Post Office branches where a previous Subpostmaster
has transferred to Split Billing are required to continue with that
arrangement.

Subpostmasters taking up appointment from 1st April 2005 at sub Post
Office branches where The Official Branch telephone Line is provided by BT
but where previous subpostmasters have not transferred to Split Billing are
required as a condition of such appointment to agree to transfer to Split
Billing by signing the necessary novation form provided by Post Office Ltd at
the time of their appointment.

12.2 By allowing the installation by Post Office Ltd at the sub Post Office
branch of a separate BT line to be used as The Official Branch Telephone
Line. Under this option the Subpostmaster retains whatever private lines and
/or telecommunications facilities he or she wishes, but those facilities are not
used for official purposes. As Post Office Ltd pays BT directly for the official
use of this line the Subpostmaster incurs no telephone costs for the provision
of The Official Branch Telephone Line and has no need to reclaim such costs
from Post Office Ltd.

As BT provides the Official Branch Telephone Line under this option, it meets
the requirements of the Post Office Ltd ADSL service.

New Subpostmasters who take up appointment at sub Post Office branches
where a previous Subpostmaster has adopted this option are required to
continue with this arrangement.

12.3 By the provision of The Official Branch Telephone Line via BT or
another telecommunications service provider in circumstances where the
Subpostmaster retains responsibility for and ownership of the Line. In such
circumstances, the Subpostmaster is billed directly by the service provider for
all costs associated with the line and is entitled to reclaim from Post Office
Ltd the ‘official’ element of those costs in accordance with paragraphs 13 to
19, below.

If the telephone facilities provided under this option do not meet the
specifications required by the Post Office Ltd ADSL service the facilities will
not be acceptable as The Official Branch Telephone Line. In such
circumstances the Subpostmaster must either agree to transfer to option
12.1 or option 12.2 unless Post Office Ltd is unable to offer either of those
options, in which case the existing arrangements would continue. In the

POL00000246
POL00000246
event of transfer to option 12.1 or 12.2. he or she would then lose their
entitlement to reclaim costs related to official rental or calls.

New Subpostmasters who take up appointment at sub Post Office branches
where a previous Subpostmaster has adopted this option are required as a
condition of their appointment to change to option 12.1 or 12.2 upon
appointment unless Post Office Ltd is unable to offer either of those options
in which case they may maintain this arrangement

Telephone Costs Reimbursement

13. The following applies only to those Subpostmasters who provide The Official
Branch telephone Line in accordance with option 12.3 above

Rental Charges

14. Post Office Ltd on production of a paid quarterly telephone account, will
reimburse the Subpostmaster the rental charges billed by BT including the VAT
element (see paragraph 19) appropriate to the type of telephone facility that Post
Office Ltd has agreed is necessary. Rental charges which exceed the levels so
authorised by Post Office Ltd remain the responsibility of the Subpostmaster.

Call Unit Allowance

15. Each Subpostmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance
of call units for official purposes, based on the scale of Post Office business
transacted; any part of the allowance not expended in a telephone account period
cannot be carried over to the next. The Subpostmaster is due to pay for all call units
used in excess of this allowance.

16. The standard allowances have been fixed at a level which takes into account
the varying conditions between offices. They also allow a margin for contingencies.

Branch Banding (per annum) Official call
per annum
Up to £12k £5.48
Between £12k and £25k £10.92
Between £25k and £35k £40.32
over £35k £52.92

Supplementary Allowance

17. Mailwork Subpostmaster may claim an additional allowance, in respect of
calls made in connection with his Mailwork responsibilities, providing that the
standard allowance has been expended. A claim, supported by documentary

POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246

evidence should be submitted to Post Office Ltd with the telephone account
for the period concerned.
Submission of Telephone Reimbursement Claim

18. The Subpostmaster must submit his paid telephone invoice one a quarterly basis
for reimbursement.

Reimbursement of VAT Charges
19. Post Office Ltd will reimburse the Subpostmaster the charges raised for VAT

at the standard rate, in respect of that part of the total charge related to Post Office
services, i.e. rental, the free call allowance and emergency repairs.

END
POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 17 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT

SECTION 13 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT,
SECTION 13(M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS’ CONTRACT

SUBPOSTMASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS; BETTING AND GAMBLING; LICENSED PREMISES;
BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY; POLITICAL ACTIVITIES; CANVASSING FOR BUSINESS;
EMPLOYMENT IN ROYAL MAIL GROUP PLC OR CIVIL SERVICE.

1. PRIVATE BUSINESS

11 The appointment of a Subpostmaster confers on the individual concerned the right to
transact, and to receive payment for, certain items of business on behalf of Post Office Ltd.
The conditions of the appointment also involve such non-compete restrictions on the
private activities of the Subpostmaster on the premises in which his Post Office® branch is
situated as are fundamental and necessary to ensure the continued viability of Post Office

Ltd’s nationwide network.

12. Itisimportant to the future of the Post Office® network that all Subpostmasters support
Post Office® products and services. A Subpostmaster who offers products or services in his
private retail business on the premises in which his Post Office® branch is situated which
compete with Post Office® products and services can reduce the revenue generated by the
Post Office® branch. This revenue is essential to provide a contribution to Post Office Ltd's
fixed costs of maintaining the Post Office® network. Without this contribution, Post Office
Ltd might not be able to sustain the Post Office® network. It is therefore also in the

interests of all Subpostmasters to support this principle.

13 It is also in the interests of all Subpostmasters that Post Office Ltd is able to seek and
negotiate business opportunities for the whole Post Office® network and that it does not
allow clients or suppliers to enter into arrangements directly with selected Post Office®
branches only to the disadvantage of the rest of the network. This would adversely affect

Post Office Ltd’s ability to maintain the Post Office® network as a whole.

14 Subpostmasters benefit from being part of the Post Office® network. In addition to
payments which Subpostmasters receive from Post Office Ltd, Post Office Ltd invests in
advertising that brings customers into Post Office® branches, it ensures that Post Office®
products meet regulatory requirements and it provides customer and business services such

as helplines to support Subpostmasters.

POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246

Accordingly, except as permitted by and in compliance with any waiver granted by Post

Office Ltd in accordance with paragraph 1.11 below, a Subpostmaster must not undertake in

a private capacity, or allow anyone else to undertake on the premises in which his Post

Office® branch is situated, the types of business listed in paragraph 1. 6 of this section 17,

as amended by Post Office Ltd from time to time in accordance with paragraph 1.8 below.

The non-compete restrictions on private business activities on the premises in which the

Post Office® branch is situated are as follows:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

business concerned with the provision of services relating to the collection,
conveyance and/or delivery of letters, parcels and packages (collectively called
“Packets” in this paragraph) including without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing: the sale of stamps, pre-paid postage labels and stationery with prepaid
postage; the acceptance, retention, sortation, return and redirection of Packets
(including Packets containing mail order or other home shopping goods and other

Packets); and the acceptance of payment for such services;

services for the payment of bills, the collection of payments (including pre-
payments) or the collection of revenue (whether by the sale of stamps or meter
tokens, the charging of budget keys or by other means) in connection with services
for the supply of water, gas, fixed line telephones, electricity, cable or satellite

television, or local authority services;

the sale of National Lottery products;

Banking, Building, Industrial and Provident Society, Friendly Society or Credit Union
business or otherwise making available banking facilities including, without
limitation, cheque-cashing, bureau de change (including the selling and buying back
of currency, on demand and pre-order services), collecting deposits or providing
withdrawal facilities on behalf of deposit-takers whether over-the-counter or
through an automated teller machine (ATM) or providing loans, credit cards or other
forms of credit or credit brokerage services but not including the provision of cash-
back transactions or the provision of basic saving stamp schemes which do not
involve the return of cash to participants in the scheme. For the avoidance of doubt,
a cash-back transaction is the withdrawal of cash via a debit card scheme, from the
account associated with the card used, as part of a transaction for the purchase of

goods or services through the same scheme; and
(v) any financial services business or otherwise making available facilities which may
compete with the financial services activities carried on or to be carried on by
Subpostmasters at any time for or on behalf of Post Office Ltd or through Post
Office® branches or which may compromise the regulatory status of Post Office
Ltd (including for this purpose, its Subpostmasters) in its role as appointed
representative of Post Office Ltd’s financial service product providers, including, for
the avoidance of doubt, the promotion of competing financial services but not
including the provision of basic savings stamps schemes which do not involve the

return of cash to participants in the scheme.

For the avoidance of doubt, these non-compete restrictions apply to all methods of
transaction of the areas of business set out above. This includes, without limitation, the use

of smartcards, ATMs and on-line terminals.

The categories of business listed in paragraph 1.6 above constitute the current non-compete
restrictions but Post Office Ltd reserves the right to review these restrictions in the light of
changing business requirements, varying them if necessary. All Subpostmasters will be
given at least 12 months’ notice in writing of any such changes. No restrictions will be
introduced on products or services other than Key Products and Services, as defined in

section 1.9 of this section 17.

Key Products and Services are the core products and services offered by Post Office Ltd. The
Key Products and Services are:

0) Letters, parcels and packages services of any kind and related services;

(ii) Services for the payment of bills, collection of payment or collection of revenue;
(iii) National Lottery products;

(iv) Banking services, including bureau de change;

(wv) Financial services;

(vi) National Savings and Investment products;

(vi) Money transfer services;

(viii) Postal orders;

(ix) Savings stamps;

& Benefits’ distribution and Government services;

(xi) Motor vehicle and driver licensing services and other motorist services;

(xii) Telephony products and services;

(xiii) Travel ticketing and travel passes; and

(xiv) Television licensing services.

POL00000246
POL00000246
1.10

1.12

21

POL00000246
POL00000246

Post Office Ltd reserves the right to amend this list of Key Products and Services from time
to time. No new products or services will be introduced to this list which are not current or

future key sources of revenue and/or contribution for Post Office Ltd.

If a Subpostmaster is considering taking up a new private retail business opportunity which
may fall within the scope of the non-compete restrictions specified in paragraph 1.6 above,
he should, before he takes up any such business, inform Post Office Ltd of the circumstances
and seek advice as to whether the work concerned falls within the restrictions described

above.

Subpostmasters may apply for a waiver from the non-compete restrictions in paragraph 1.6
of this section 17. Post Office Ltd’s waiver policy is available on the Post Office Ltd website.
This sets out the circumstances in which a waiver may be granted and the procedures that
must be followed. This policy is subject to amendment by Post Office Ltd from time to time.
If a waiver is granted subject to conditions, a Subpostmaster must comply with these
conditions. A failure to do so will result in the waiver being invalid from the date the

Subpostmaster ceased to comply with the conditions.

ASubpostmaster must not use and must ensure that no third party uses the name “Post
Office” in connection with any of his private business activities (or the private business
activities of a company with which he is associated in any way) or in such a way as to imply
that Post Office Ltd is in any way connected with these activities. Nor may a Subpostmaster
transact any private business in a way that might lead customers to conclude that Post

Office Ltd is in any way connected with that business.

A Subpostmaster must not engage Royal Mail Group employees to undertake any work
whatsoever connected with the Subpostmaster’s private business (or the private business
activities of a company with which he is associated in any way) at any time when they are
employed in Post Office® or Royal Mail Group duties.

BETTING AND GAMBLING; LICENSED PREMISES; BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

A Subpostmaster and his Assistants must not:

@ bet or gamble by means of post (betting by private telephone off the Post Office®

part of the premises is permissible); or
22

23

24

25

26

(ii) take part in racing etc. pool or competitions or betting at “fixed odds” on football
matches (there is no objection to participation in ordinary football pool

competition).

A Subpostmaster must not on the premises in which the Post Office® branch is situated;

(i) allow or provide for gambling; or
(ii) conduct any business with a turf commission agency or a football or turf pool
agency

Notwithstanding the conditions of Paragraphs 1.6(iii), 1.10 and 2.2 above, a Subpostmaster
and his Assistants may in a private capacity take part in or act as a promoter of such local
lotteries as are permitted under the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 (Northern Ireland
in part Ill of the Betting and Lotteries Act (Northern Ireland) 1957). The onus of ensuring
that the law is complied with rests with the person concerned in the promotion and conduct
of the lottery and the sale of tickets. Tickets for such lotteries must not be sold over the Post
Office® branch counter nor must the Post Office® branch be used in any way for
advertising purposes, eg. in giving addresses at which tickets are available, nor must
advertisements include the words Post Office/Post Office®, Sub-Post Office/Sub-Post
Office®, Post Office branch/Post Office® branch or Subpostmaster.

A Post Office® branch may not be situated in premises for which an “on” licence allowing for
the sale of drinks, other than a restaurant, has been granted, unless the premises have been
clearly divided so that Post Office® customers do not need to go through the licensed
premises. There is no objection to the Subpostmaster holding an “off” licence provided the

liquor is sold in closed vessels.

Neither a Subpostmaster nor any company with which he is associated in any way must
borrow from or lend money to any Royal Mail Group employee. Nor shoulda
Subpostmaster or any such company provide security for the benefit of any Royal Mail

Group employee in raising a loan.

The loaning of money by a Subpostmaster or by any company with which he is associated
in any way to persons drawing pensions or allowances on the security or strength of their
Post Office Card Accounts or of expected future payments from the Department of Work

and Pensions is also strictly forbidden.

POL00000246
POL00000246
3.

3.1

32

41

42

END

POL00000246
POL00000246

POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

A Subpostmaster is free to take part in any national and local political activities subject to

the following conditions:-

i) he must not engage in or allow his assistants to engage in political activities whilst
engaged on Post Office® business or on the Post Office® branch premises;

(ii) he must not exhibit any notice soliciting votes for any particular candidate or with
any party or political object either in the Post Office® branch or on any vehicle
under the control of the Royal Mail Group; and no leaflet or address with a party or

political object may lie or be exhibited within the Post Office® branch.

A Subpostmaster who intends to stand for Parliament must notify Post Office Ltd
accordingly at the earliest opportunity. He must cease to have connection with the running
of the Post Office® branch from the day he is nominated when the branch will be placed “in
charge”. On receipt of the notification Post Office Ltd will inform him of arrangements
whereby he may name a deputy to act as Subpostmaster should he be elected. If he is
elected he will be able to resume office when he ceases to be a Member of Parliament,
provided the break in his service does not exceed 5 years and further provided he has
complied with the arrangements for naming a deputy and the Post Office® branch has not
been closed through normal changes during his absence; should he fail to comply with
these arrangements he will be regarded as having resigned on the day he is elected. If he is

not elected he may resume office after the election result has been declared.

CANVASSING FOR BUSINESS; EMPLOYMENT IN ROYAL MAIL GROUP PLC OR THE CIVIL
SERVICE

A Subpostmaster must not canvass persons, firms or companies who reside or carry on
business at a place nearer to another Post Office® branch, to transact Post Office® business
at his Post Office® branch. Nor must he deliver items of Post Office® business to

customers’ premises.

Neither a Subpostmaster nor any of his Assistants may be employed in Royal Mail Group pic
or the Civil Service if his duties would bring him into contact with the work of the Post
Office® branch.
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 12(A) OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 8 (A) OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 9 (M) (A) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE SAFEGUARDING OF THE MAIL

1. The Subpostmaster is responsible for the safekeeping of any letter, parcel,
packet or other item transmissible by post which is conveyed, received, sorted,
collected, delivered or otherwise handled in accordance with the provisions of
this Contract (defined hereinafter as a “Postal Packet”) whilst such Postal
Packets are in his custody, and he must take all reasonable measures to protect
them from delay, loss, theft, damage and/or interference of any kind.

2. Security instructions issued and amended (where necessary to minimise the
risks referred to in paragraph 1 above) from time to time by Post Office Ltd
set out the procedures which the Subpostmaster must follow in relation to the
collection, handling, conveyance and delivery of any Postal Packet. Failure by
the Subpostmaster or any of his Assistants to follow any such procedure will
be deemed to be a breach of condition of this Contract by him, and Post Office
Ltd reserves the right to take appropriate action in the circumstances.

INFORMATION/REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

3. The Subpostmaster acknowledges that Post Office Ltd views every incident of
damage to, theft or loss of, or interference with, a Postal Packet as being very
serious in nature. The Subpostmaster must therefore report as soon as possible
to Post Office Ltd every such incident in the manner set out in this Contract, or
as may otherwise be required by Post Office Ltd.

END

Section 8A Community July 2006_Safeguarding the mail
POL00000246

POL00000246

POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 15 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 11 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 10(M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

ASSISTANTS

INTRODUCTION

Post Office Ltd must comply with certain obligations in relation to the Post Office®
business, including those of: Postcomm, Ofcom and Financial Services Authority

regulations, and money laundering and immigration legislation. Some of these obligations

require Post Office Ltd to ensure that its Subpostmasters (and any persons employed or

engaged by Subpostmasters on Post Office® business) are made aware of, and know how to
comply with, the terms of such regulations and legislation. These requirements have been set
out in this Contract (in particular, but not limited to, this Section and the Section dealing with
Divulgence of Official Information). The obligations placed upon Subpostmasters are the
minimum necessary to ensure that both Post Office Ltd and Subpostmasters are compliant
with the regulations and legislation mentioned above, and are, in the main, what most
Subpostmasters, as responsible employers, should be doing anyway. The objectives of these
obligations are:

to ensure that Post Office Ltd complies with the relevant regulations and legislation,
and

to ensure as far as possible that Subpostmasters do so too, and that no Subpostmaster
suffers from the consequences of failure to so comply. (This is very important, as
those consequences can include criminal prosecution.)

Subpostmasters have a duty to ensure that they are aware and that they make their staff
aware, of the obligations set out in this Contract.

GENERAL

1.

A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any suitable assistants with the
relevant skills which he may need to carry out the Post Office® work in his sub Post
Office® branch (“Assistants”).

Assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster, and the Subpostmaster will
consequently be held wholly responsible for any failure, on the part of his Assistants,
to:

2.1 apply Post Office® rules or instructions as required by Post Office Ltd;

2.2 complete any training necessary in order to properly provide Post Office®
Services; and

2.3. comply with the obligations set out below.

The Subpostmaster will also be required to make good any deficiency of cash or stock
which may result from his Assistants’ actions or inactions.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
41

4.2

43

POL00000246

POL00000246

This Section contains the obligations which the Subpostmaster has to fulfil in relation
to the recruitment and employment of each of his Assistants (which includes any
members of his own family). Where the Subpostmaster fails to comply with any of
these terms, he may be deemed to be in breach of his Contract which will then be
liable to termination. The obligations in this Section are additional to the
Subpostmaster’s responsibility, as the employer of his Assistants, to comply with the
provisions of any legislation and regulations that impose obligations on employers,
providers of postal services and financial services, or sellers of insurance or
communications products.

RECRUITMENT

The Subpostmaster must establish and maintain a recruitment file for each Assistant.
In order to meet its legal obligations regarding monitoring of compliance, Post Office
Ltd will be entitled to inspect such recruitment files from time to time upon giving the
Subpostmaster reasonable written notice that they should be made available for such
inspection. The recruitment file should include, in the format of the Recruitment
Checklist at Appendix 3 to this Section, a comprehensive record of all checks carried
out in relation to the recruitment, selection and employment of any person applying to
him for employment as an Assistant ( defined in this Contract as the “Applicant”).

The Subpostmaster is responsible for carrying out all necessary checks in order to
satisfy himself as to the honesty, integrity and suitability of any Applicant. He must
also take certain steps, as set out below, in order to satisfy himself as to:

. the right to work in the UK;
. the identity and permanent National Insurance number; and
. the address,

of any Applicant.

Proof of Right to Work in the UK

The following procedures are necessary to meet the requirements of immigration
legislation:

Step 1

The Subpostmaster will need to ask all Applicants to provide documentation that
satisfies the criteria listed at Appendix 2 to this Section.

Step 2

The Subpostmaster must satisfy himself that the Applicant is the rightful holder of
any of the documents he presents.

The Subpostmaster must carry out the following reasonable steps when checking any
documents presented by an Applicant:

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
44

POL00000246

POL00000246

a) check any photographs, where provided, to ensure that they are consistent
with the appearance of the Applicant;

b) check that the dates of birth listed are consistent with each other and with the
appearance of the Applicant;

c) check that the expiry dates are valid and the documents are still live;

d) check any United Kingdom Government stamps or endorsements to see if the
Applicant is able to do the type of work he is offering;
e) if the Applicant gives you, from List 2 of Appendix 2, two documents that

have different names for the Applicant, you should ask him for a further
document to explain the reason for this. (The further document could be a
marriage certificate, divorce document, deed poll, adoption certificate or
statutory declaration.)

Step 3

The Subpostmaster should make a photocopy of the following parts of all the
documents shown to him for retention in the recruitment file:

a) the front cover and all of the pages which give the Applicant’s personal
details. In particular, the Subpostmaster should copy: (i) the page with the
photograph, and (ii) the page which shows the Applicant’s signature; and

b) any page containing a United Kingdom Government stamp or endorsement

that permits the Applicant to do the type of work the Subpostmaster is
offering.

If it is not possible to make the necessary photocopies at the time, the documents.
should be retained, copied at the earliest possible opportunity and returned to the
Applicant.

Step 4

List in the Applicant’s recruitment file all documents seen and copied on steps 1-3
above (e.g. ‘UK Passport — Number 12345678’; or ‘Full birth certificate and a P60
dated 14 April 2005’).

Proof of Permanent National Insurance Number

44.1 Unless already provided and photocopied, as part of an Applicant’s
documentation proving his Right to Work in the UK, the Subpostmaster will

need to see a document giving the Applicant’s permanent National Insurance

Number and name. This could be a: P45, P60, National Insurance card, or a
letter from a Government agency.

4.4.2 The Subpostmaster must then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the
document seen (there is no need to photocopy the document if it is provided
solely for proving the NI number).

4.4.3 For the small number of Applicants who are unable to supply a permanent
National Insurance number, they should be asked to explain why, the reason
should be noted and the Subpostmaster should consider carefully whether to
proceed with the application. Applicants with a genuine reason for being
unable to supply a permanent National Insurance number (such as Applicants

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
45

46

47

48

49

4.10

4.11

POL00000246

POL00000246

from outside the UK) should be advised that they would need to obtain one
from the relevant authorities prior to being appointed.

Proof of Address

The Subpostmaster must see at least one of the following items showing the
Applicant’s name and current address:

Driving Licence

Recent Paid Gas or Electricity Bill

Recent Paid Telephone Bill (not mobile)

Recent Paid Council Tax Bill

Recent Paid Water Bill

Recent TV Licence

Recent Bank Statement, must be supported by a credit/debit card

(In relation to the above “Recent” means no more than 3 months old.)

The Subpostmaster must then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the details of the
document seen (there is no need to photocopy the ‘proof of address’ document).

The Subpostmaster must ensure that all recruitment files for successful Applicants
have been correctly annotated and the associated photocopies have been included to
provide proof of an Applicant’s right to work in the UK. There should be no missing
photocopies, incorrect combinations of documents or incomplete tick lists.

The Subpostmaster must not confirm an Applicant’s appointment until the criteria
have been met and the registration process outlined below has been completed.

It is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to ascertain that all documentation supplied by
the Applicant satisfies the criteria.

References

At the recruitment stage, the Subpostmaster will need to obtain at least 2 references
(which must be independent of the Applicant and of each other) in respect of the
Applicant.

Work History

The Subpostmaster must obtain a work history from each Applicant for the
immediately preceding 5 years (unless the period in which each Applicant has worked
can be proved to be less than 5 years, in which case the work history of the full period
must be obtained). It is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to assure himself of the
validity and accuracy of the details provided by the Applicant. (Measures to achieve
this could include questioning at interview, and the seeking of references from
previous employers).

Honesty, Integrity and Suitability

4.11.1 The Subpostmaster must seek information from each Applicant about any
unspent convictions, including conditional discharges, for any offence in a
Court of Law (including a Youth Court or Court Martial) or any caution,

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246
POL00000246

reprimand or warning. The Subpostmaster must also seek information from
each Applicant about any pending criminal proceedings in which the
Applicant might be involved. The Subpostmaster must also seek information
from each Applicant about mis-selling of any product or service or lack of
integrity in any form of employment involving selling.

4.11.2 In order to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on
Post Office® work, the Subpostmaster must, before the Applicant begins
employment with the Subpostmaster, complete the registration process
detailed at 4.11.3 below (defined in this Contract as the “Registration
Process”). Under no circumstances must the Subpostmaster employ an
Assistant before the Registration Process is completed and the Subpostmaster
has received clearance from Post Office Ltd to employ that Assistant. All
Assistants must be registered, including members of the Subpostmaster’s
family who may only occasionally work in the Post Office® branch. Holiday
reliefs also need to be registered.

4.11.3 The Registration Process

(i) To register an Applicant as an Assistant the Subpostmaster must complete
forms P250 and P13. The text of form P250 is at Appendix 1 to this
Section. The text of form P13 is at Appendix I to the Section dealing with
Divulgence of Official Information. In addition the Applicant must
complete and sign a Security Checks Consent Form. The Subpostmaster
may obtain these forms from Post Office Ltd.

(ii) Form P250. The Subpostmaster must complete and sign Section 1; the
Applicant must complete and sign Section 2. The Subpostmaster must
then submit the completed form to the address indicated on it.

The Subpostmaster must ensure that any details referred to in paragraphs
4.11.1 above and 4.11.5 below about the Applicant (defined in this
Contract as “Relevant Information”) which have come to his attention are
honestly recorded on the form. This will enable Post Office Ltd to
conduct its own checks into the background of the Applicant.

(iii) Security Checks Consent Form. The Applicant must complete this form
in his own handwriting and sign and date it. The Subpostmaster must
check that form is complete and legible and that the personal details
shown on it match those entered on the P250. The completed form should
be sent with the competed P250 to the address shown on the P250.

(iv)Form P13. If the Subpostmaster is satisfied that the identity, character,
history and suitability of any Applicant will not cause him to breach any
of the obligations in this Contract he must require that the Applicant
makes a personal declaration on form P13 prior to commencing work in
the Post Office® branch. Two copies of this form must be completed, one
of which must be kept by the Applicant, and the other should be sent, with
the completed P250 and the completed Security Checks Consent Form, to
the return address on the P250. Both the Subpostmaster and the Applicant
must sign the P13.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
4.12

w

5.1

POL00000246

POL00000246

(v) Pre-employment checks will be carried out upon receipt by Post Office
Ltd of the relevant forms, which should be fully and legibly completed.
(These checks can take up to seven working days.)

(vi)The Subpostmaster will then be informed whether or not he may employ
the Applicant as an Assistant.

4.11.4 Where Post Office Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not be in its
best interests for a particular Applicant to be engaged upon Post Office®
business or to have access to any part of the Post Office® branch it will be
entitled to require the Subpostmaster to refrain from employing that Applicant
on Post Office® business if not already employed, or to ensure that the
Applicant is not further employed on Post Office® business if already
employed. If after such a requirement has been reasonably made by Post
Office Ltd the Subpostmaster continues to employ such Applicant he may be
deemed to be in breach of his Contract as referred to in paragraph 3 above.

4.11.5 If details of any offences committed by the Applicant relating to:
(i) the delivery or handling of mail, post or packets; or
(ii) theft or the obtaining of property by deception or fraud; or
(iii) mis-selling of any product or service; or
(iv) _ lack of integrity in any form of employment involving selling; or
(v) dishonest conduct of any kind,

come to Post Office Ltd’s attention by any means and Post Office Ltd notifies
this fact to the Subpostmaster the Applicant will not until further notice be
eligible to work on Post Office® business or any business concerning Royal
Mail Group plc and the provisions of paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.

As a general guide no person under 16 years of age should be employed on Post
Office® work, or have access to Postal Packets. However where there is no reasonable
alternative to the part-time employment of an Assistant under 16 years of age, such
employment must be subject to the following conditions:

no person under the age of 14 years may be employed in any capacity;

the Assistant, even ifa family member, should be fully registered with Post Office
Ltd in accordance with the provisions of this Section 15; and

the Subpostmaster must comply with all relevent legislation affecting the employment
of young persons and children.

UNSUITABLE PERSONS

During the entire period that an Assistant is employed by the Subpostmaster, the
Subpostmaster will report immediately to Post Office Ltd any Relevant Information
as soon as he becomes aware of same.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
5.2

6.1

6.2

63

7A

POL00000246

POL00000246

If:

5.2.1 the Subpostmaster does not submit a form P250 prior to the employment by
him of the Applicant; or

5.2.2 the Subpostmaster does not declare on the form P250 any Relevant
Information concerning the Applicant of which he was aware; or

5.2.3 the Applicant fails any checks carried out internally by Post Office Ltd; or

5.2.4 the Subpostmaster does not report to Post Office Ltd as soon as possible any
Relevant Information of which he becomes aware (after submission of a form
P250),

the provisions of paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.
ONGOING REGISTRATION CHECKS

To meet the needs of regulation and legislation Post Office Ltd must be able to
maintain accurate details of all those who work in Post Office® branches. In addition
to completing forms P250 and P13 when employing new Assistants, the
Subpostmaster is, therefore, required each year to take part in an annual check of
persons employed in Post Office® branches. The current mechanism for this check is
the form P356, which the Subpostmaster is required to fill out and return. This
provides Post Office Ltd with up-to-date details of the people working in a Post
Office® branch and acts as a monitoring check that every Assistant has been cleared
through the pre-employment checking system. It is absolutely essential that the
Subpostmaster cooperates fully with this process or any replacement process that Post
Office Ltd may subsequently and reasonably require.

The details listed on form P356 for each Assistant, which the Subpostmaster will need
to check for accuracy and amend as necessary are as follows:

e Post Office® branch name and address, FAD (or Branch) code
e  Assistant’s name, date of birth and National Insurance number
e Role type, (e.g. Assistant or holiday relief )

e Date employment commenced and, if applicable, date employment ceased and
reason for leaving

e Relationship to Subpostmaster (if applicable)
¢ Horizon Log On ID
Details must be entered on form P356 for every Assistant employed by the

Subpostmaster, even if he only works occasionally e.g. as a holiday relief.

TRAIN)

Post Office Ltd will:

7.1.1 provide the Subpostmaster with relevant training materials and processes to
carry out the required training of his Assistants on the Post Office® Products
and Services;

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246

POL00000246

7.1.2. inform the Subpostmaster as soon as possible where new or revised training
will be necessary as a result of changes in either the law or Post Office®
Products and Services; and

7.1.3. where appropriate (for instance where clause 7.1.2 of this Section applies)
update the training materials (or processes) or provide new training materials
(or processes) to the Subpostmaster.

However, it is the Subpostmaster’s responsibility to ensure the proper deployment
within his Post Office® branch of any materials and processes provided by Post
Office Ltd and to ensure that his Assistants receive all the training which is necessary
in order to be able to properly provide the Post Office® Products and Services and to
perform any other tasks required in connection with the operation of the Post Office®
branch.

7.2 Where Post Office Ltd has obligations to third parties in relation to certain Post
Office® Products and Services (including, but not limited to, financial transactions
(such as bureau de change, and sales of insurance) and communications products, and
provision of mail services), the Subpostmaster undertakes to use his best endeavours
to ensure that his Assistants will not cause Post Office Ltd to be in breach of such
obligations.

7.3 Post Office Ltd may request from time to time that where it has obligations as
described above the Subpostmaster should conduct specific training (whether through
written/distance learning that may require confirmation of completion or via
presentations) in relation to certain Post Office® Services (such as, but not limited to,
money laundering). Failure by the Subpostmaster to arrange for such training to be
properly applied will be deemed to be a breach of this Contract by him.

7.4 Training Policy

74.1 The Subpostmaster must formulate a training policy for all his Assistants, in
order to fulfil his obligations in relation to the safekeeping of any Postal
Packets.

74.2 This training policy should include the following elements:

e the levels of training required to fulfil the obligations referred to above at
TAA;

e the levels of training required according to the differing responsibilities of,

and work undertaken by, the Assistants, in relation to Postal Packets;

details of the minimum level of training required;

an explanation of how the training is provided;

the frequency with which training is provided; and

details of how training is given, recorded and monitored.

7.4.3 The policy must also ensure compliance with all other regulatory and
legislative requirements.

74.4 The Subpostmaster must regularly monitor the implementation of and
compliance with the training policy in his Post Office® branch.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
8.1

8.2

8.3

8.4

91

9.2

9.3

POL00000246
POL00000246

SECURITY

The Subpostmaster must inform each of his Assistants of the seriousness of any
offence of damage or interference to any Postal Packet.

The Subpostmaster must ensure that his Assistants comply with the requirements of
the Operations Manual, Volume 5 and the Security Booklet in general - sub sections
3, 4, and 8 in particular, as they apply to:

e the security of the premises;

e the collection, despatch, conveyance or delivery of mail; and

e the measures to be taken to prevent or detect loss or theft of or damage to a
Postal Packet.

The Subpostmaster must maintain records which can enable him as far as is
reasonably practicable, to identify which of his Assistants was responsible for the
conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation, delivery or handling of any Postal Packet
which may have been interfered with.

The Subpostmaster must carry out regular assessments of the risk to Postal Packets at
the Post Office® branch.

DISCIPLINE

The Subpostmaster is responsible for:

9.1.1 ensuring that each of his Assistants is made aware: (a) that he is responsible
for the safekeeping of Postal Packet whilst such Postal Packets are in his
custody; (b) that he must take all reasonable measures to protect them from
delay, loss, theft, damage and/or interference of any kind, and (c) that failure
by him to follow any security instruction or procedure issued and amended
(where necessary to minimise the risks referred to above) from time to time by
Post Office Ltd will be deemed to be a breach of condition of this Contract by
the Subpostmaster, and Post Office Ltd reserves the right to take appropriate
action in the circumstances; and

9.1.2 placing the obligations set out in 9.1.1 above directly upon every Assistant
whom he employs on Post Office® business.

The Subpostmaster must establish maintain and adhere consistently to a formal
disciplinary policy in respect of any of his Assistants who fails to comply with his
obligations as set out in this Contract. Where the Subpostmaster already has an
established disciplinary policy for his employees it is simply necessary to ensure that
the policy meets the criteria set out in 9.3 and 9.4 below.

The policy referred to in 9.2 above must include at least the following elements:

9.3.1 an explanation of what constitutes a “failure to meet the standards of
conduct”, and the action to be taken in relation to such failure;

9.3.2 a description of how the Subpostmaster has conveyed to his Assistants:

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
94

95

9.6

10.

10.1

10.2

POL00000246

POL00000246

e the fact that a failure to meet the standards of conduct might also constitute a
criminal offence; and
e the action which will be taken in relation to any such failure;

9.3.3 a provision for the appropriate records to be maintained detailing any action
taken against an Assistant for failure to meet a required standard of conduct;
and

9.3.4 an explanation of:

* how the Subpostmaster identifies consistent failures to meet the relevant
standards of conduct; and

e what remedial action the Subpostmaster will take in the event of consistent
failures being made.

The Subpostmaster must regularly review:
e the standards of conduct imposed; and
e the disciplinary policy in place.

The Subpostmaster will keep a formal record of his disciplinary policy and any
exercise by him of it, and Post Office Ltd will be entitled to request sight of such
record from time to time, where it is reasonable to do so in order to ensure that the
Subpostmaster is complying with his obligations in this respect.

Where Post Office Ltd believes, in good faith, that a Subpostmaster has not
implemented the disciplinary policy properly (or at all) against an Assistant, where
circumstances justify such implementation, the provisions of paragraph 3 above will

apply.

INFORMATION/REPORTING

The Subpostmaster must as soon as possible upon becoming aware of its occurrence,
report to Post Office Ltd every incidence of loss or theft of, damage to, or
interference with, a Postal Packet (defined in this Contract as an “Incident”).

The Subpostmaster must also record in respect of each Incident at least the following
details:

e the date, time and place;

e the number of (or, where not known, a reasonable estimate of) Postal Packets
involved;

e as far as reasonably practicable, the Assistants who may have participated in
the conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation or delivery of the Postal Packets
involved; and

e any other particulars in relation to it (including the factual circumstances).

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246
POL00000246

(Appendices 1, 2, & 3 follow)

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246

POL00000246

SECTION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 1 FORM P250

ASSISTANTS AT POST OFFICE® BRANCHES

Section 1 of this form should be completed and signed by the Subpostmaster or Franchisee or ‘officer in charge”
whenever considering appointing an Assistant.

Section 2 of this form should be completed and signed by the prospective Assistant.
(Please note that if more than one change is made to Assistants at the branch, a separate form will need to be
completed for each prospective Assistant.)

SECTION 1 - EMPLOYEE (PLEASE COMPLETE IN BLOCK CAPITALS)

POST OFFICE® BRANCH NAME:
FAD CODE: I
SUBPOSTMASTER’S/FRANCHISEE’S/OPERATOR’S/OFFICER IN CHARGE’S NAME:

ADDRESS TO WHICH THE AUTHORISATION LETTER SHOULD BE SENT:

Thave selected (full name in block capitals) as a prospective
Assistant at my branch, I have satisfied myself that his character is satisfactory and I am satisfied that he is,
suitable for the relevant duty. I have no reason to suspect that any previous Post Office'® service by the
prospective Assistant is not fully stated below.

New Assistant - If the prospective Assistant has previously worked at any Post Office® branches, please give
details below
Branch Position held Start I End I Reason for leaving

date date

Tcan confirm that I have obtained the following information: (Please give details where appropriate and refer
to your contract with Post Office Ltd for the criteria on suitable evidence required)

¢ Details of the prospective Assistant’s career history over the last 5 years

© Two references (- cither one character and one employment reference, or two character references - but the
referees must be independent of the Applicant and of each other).

© Suitable evidence of identity. State Identity evidence seen

* Suitable evidence of National Insurance No. and address. State evidence seen

e Evidence of right to work in the UK. State evidence seen

Proposed start date of Assistant Horizon User ID (e.g. EPRO01) (Do NOT Enter
Any Passwords)

Subpostmaster/Franchisee/Operator/officer in charge signature:

and name (in block capitals):

Date:

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246

POL00000246

SECTION 2 - ASSISTANT DETAILS

Title and name in full (Mr/Mrs/Miss/Ms)

Name at birth, if different from above

Date of birth

Town of birth

Country of birth

National Insurance number

Position (e.g.. Assistant/Holiday Relief)

Home address Previous address (If less than
2 years at present address)

Have you ever been found guilty of any offence (including conditional discharges) in a court of law
(including a Youth Court or Court Martial) or have you received any caution, reprimand or warning,
or have you been involved in any mis-selling or lack of integrity in any form of selling environment?
Please tick “Yes” or “No”. Yes [] No []

If the answer is “Yes” give full particulars.

{NOTE: In answering the question please note that it does NOT relate to any conviction or finding
which is treated as spent by virtue of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974. If therefore, the only
conviction or finding against you is treated as spent, your answer to the question should be “No”.]

I declare that I have answered all the questions truthfully and fully, and that I am not aware of any
circumstances, which if known to Post Office Ltd, might cause question to my honesty and
suitability.

Signature Date

NOTE: DATA PROTECTION ACT
Personal Data supplied on this form may be processed, and/or verified by reference to
information already held by Post Office Limited.

Finally, if an existing Assistant is leaving (or has left) employment at the Post Office® branch the
Subpostmaster or Franchisee or Operator or Officer in Charge, should give details below and ensure
that the official secrets cessation form P301 is completed and returned.

Name of previous assistant Last date of Reason for leaving
employment

Once all the foregoing is complete, please return a) this form, b) the completed P13, c) the
completed Security Checks Consent form, and d) the completed form P301 (if appropriate) to
the following address:

Business Expenses Team (P250’s), People and Organisation Services, Capstan House, 35
Broadway, Salford, M50 2PB

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
SECTION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 2

Proof Of Right To Work In The UK — Acceptable Documents

POL00000246
POL00000246

The Applicant must produce either any one of the documents shown below in List I or two

documents from either of the combinations shown in List 2.

LIST 1

e A passport showing that the holder is a British citizen, or has a right of abode in the

United Kingdom.

e A document showing that the holder is a national of a European Economic Area
country (i.e. Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland,
France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain,
Sweden, The Netherlands, United Kingdom) or Switzerland. This must be a national

passport or national identity card. (See note * below).

e A residence permit issued by the Home Office to a national from a European

Economic Area country or Switzerland. (See note * below).

e A passport or other document issued by the Home Office which has an United
Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement stating that the holder
has a current right of residence in the United Kingdom as the family member of a
national from a European Economic Area country or Switzerland who is resident in

the United Kingdom. (See note * below).

e A passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home
Office stamp or endorsement to show that the holder can stay indefinitely in the

United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay. (See note * below).

e A passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home
Office stamp or endorsement to show that the holder can stay in the United Kingdom;
and that this stamp or endorsement allows the holder to do the type of work you are

offering if they do not have a work permit. (See note * below).

e An Application Registration Card issued by the Home Office to an asylum seeker

stating that the holder is permitted to take employment.

(*Nationals from certain states within the European Economic Area (contact the
Home Office, oni r details) must register with the Home Office

within one month of starting employment; you must advise them to register, and you

will need to provide them with evidence of employment (e.g. a contract or letter) in
order to do so. Once the Home Office registers your employee you should keep the

registration certificate they send to you. It is a criminal offence not to register an
appropriate employee).

LIST 2

FIRST COMBINATION

A. A document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and name. This

could be a: P45, P60, National Insurance card, or a letter from a Government agency.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
POL00000246

POL00000246

Along with one of the following documents listed in sections B—H below:

B. A full birth certificate issued in the United Kingdom, which includes the names of the
holder’s parents; OR

C. a birth certificate issued in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or Ireland; OR

D. a certificate of registration or naturalization stating that the holder is a British citizen; OR
E. a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder which indicates that the person named in
it can stay indefinitely in the United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay; OR

F. an Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office to the holder with an with a
United Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement indicating that the
person named in it can stay indefinitely in the United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their
stay; OR

G. a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder which indicates that the person named in
it can stay in the United Kingdom, OR

H. an Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office to the holder with an with a
United Kingdom Government or Home Office stamp or endorsement indicating that the
person named in it can stay in the United Kingdom.

SECOND COMBINATION

(i). A work permit or other approval to take employment that has been issued by Work
Permits UK.

Along with one of the following documents listed at (ii) or (iii) below:

(ii). a passport or other travel document with a United Kingdom Government or Home Office
stamp or endorsement to show that the holder is able to stay in the United Kingdom and can
take the work permit employment in question; OR

(iii) a letter issued by the Home Office to the holder confirming that the person named in it is
able to stay in the United Kingdom and can take the work permit employment in question

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants
SECTION 15 [11 COMMUNITY, 10(M) MODIFIED]

APPENDIX 3

Recruitment Checklist

Applicant’s Full Name

Applicant’s National Insurance Number

POL00000246
POL00000246

YES NO

(a) At least 2 references obtained?

(b) Evidence of identity seen?

Documents and details:

(c) Evidence of permanent NI Number seen and any
necessary photocopies taken and retained in the
Applicant’s recruitment file? Document and details:

(d) Evidence of address seen? Document and details:

(e) Evidence of right to work in UK seen and all necessary
photocopies taken and retained (including Home Office
registration application if applicable) in the Applicant’s
recruitment file?

(f) Has the 5 year work history been seen and verified if
necessary?

(g) Has the Applicant ever been found guilty (including
conditional discharges) of any offence in a court of law
(including a Youth Court or Court Martial)?

(h) If the answer to (g) is “Yes”, has the Relevant
Information been shown in the P2S0

(i) Has the Applicant received any caution, reprimand or
warning, or has he/she been involved in any mis-selling
or lack of integrity in any form of selling environment?

0) If the answer to (i) is “Yes”, has the Relevant
Information been shown in the P250

(k) Has the P250 been completed in full and sent to the
relevant address?

ra) Has the P13 been completed in full and sent with the
P250?

(m) Has the authorisation for employment of the Applicant
been received?

() Date employment as Assistant commenced.

Section 11 Community July 2006_Assistants

POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE LTD

SECTION 16 OF THE SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 12 OF THE COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT
SECTION 12 (M) OF THE MODIFIED SUBPOSTMASTERS CONTRACT

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION, CORRESPONDENCE &
INTERVIEWS

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

1. The unauthorised disclosure, or use, of any information or document which has
come to the knowledge of a Subpostmaster or sub Post Office® Assistant
through the work of his sub Post Office® branch is forbidden. Any such
disclosure may render the offender liable to prosecution.

2. Neither the Subpostmaster nor his Assistants may disclose any information
regarding Postal Packets except to the person(s) to whom such Postal Packets
are addressed; nor may they make known information that may come to them
directly or indirectly by means of the Post Office® business concerning the
character, standing, or responsibility of individuals or firms, or the private
affairs of any person.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

3.1 All new Subpostmasters and newly recruited Assistants are required to sign a
Personal Declaration (form P13 attached as Appendix I to this Section) which
reminds them of the duty of each of Post Office Ltd and the Royal Mail Group
to ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for
whom they are intended promptly and safely. The Personal Declaration also
brings to the notice of Subpostmasters and Assistants their obligations under the
Postal Services Act 2000. (An extract from this Act is reproduced at Appendix 2
of this Section).

3.2. Every Subpostmaster and each of his Assistants is on termination of his
appointment required to sign a Declaration (P301) to remind him that the
provisions of the Official Secrets Act continue to apply to him after he has left
in respect of all the information which he has acquired or to which he has had
access by virtue of his position as Subpostmaster or Assistant. (A copy of
form P301 is at Appendix 3 of this Section).

3.3 The Subpostmaster must give each of his Assistants a copy of form P13 and,
upon termination of his appointment form P301, as a reminder of the
importance of the messages they contain. The duty not to disclose
information is imposed by the Act referred to in 3.2 above - not by any
Personal Declarations. Consequently no Subpostmaster or Assistant can avoid
these legal obligations by refusing to sign a form or by attempting to revoke or
disclaim his signature on the form(s).

4. Any request made to the Subpostmaster or his Assistant by the Police or any

other authority, or by a private person, for information which may be
confidential, or may concern matters connected with the duties of another

Section 12 Community July 2006_Divulgence of official information
POL00000246
POL00000246

Subpostmaster, Franchisee, Operator or an employee of Post Office Ltd or
Royal Mail Group ple, or which is related to the Post Office® business or any
of its (potential) customers, should be referred immediately to Post Office Ltd.

CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

5.

Each of Royal Mail Group ple and Post Office Ltd has a duty to safeguard its
own interests and those of persons involved in Post Office® business in relation
to material that is published in the news media. The Public Relations
Department of each of Royal Mail Group ple and Post Office Ltd is primarily
responsible for:

@ deciding whether Royal Mail Group ple and Post Office Ltd should enter
into public correspondence, and

(ii) ensuring fair and accurate presentation of facts about Royal Mail Group
ple and Post Office Ltd and its services,

and no other person is entitled to comment publicly on such matters. In
particular, untrue, ill-informed or reckless comment will be challenged by Post
Office Ltd (or Royal Mail Group plc, as the case may be). While recognising
the right of any individual to comment publicly on matters of general interest,
each of Royal Mail Group ple and Post Office Ltd expects Subpostmasters and
their Assistants who wish to comment publicly upon matters affecting any
member of the Royal Mail Group to exercise this right in a responsible manner.
Subpostmasters must ensure, when communicating with the press or offering
comment which may be published, or broadcast on radio or television, that their
comments do not go beyond the accepted bounds of propriety and are not likely
to cause embarrassment or to mislead the public. Post Office Ltd should be
asked for advice in cases of doubt.

A Subpostmaster wishing to communicate with the public news media should
be guided by the following: -

(a) there must be no unauthorised disclosure of official information
(see above);

(b) views and opinions expressed publicly must not bring Post Office Ltd or any
other Subpostmaster, Franchisee, Operator or Royal Mail Group ple or its
employees into disrepute; and

(c) a Subpostmaster offering unauthorised public comment must make it clear
that he is commenting in his private capacity and not on behalf of Post Office
Ltd or Royal Mail Group ple.

A Senior Representative (as defined in the national agreement on facilities for
recognised unions) may wish from time to time to represent the view of the
National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, particularly on matters affecting his
Branch/Committee/Federation. In doing so he must indicate his position as a
Federation spokesman and give his own name.

Section 12 Community July 2006_Divulgence of official information
8. Particular care is necessary when offering spontaneous comment to press or
broadcasting reporters or interviewers.

PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

9. No Subpostmaster may, without the permission of Post Office Ltd, use
information derived from official records or experience for the purpose of
publishing any document, book, play or article, broadcasting on radio or
television, producing or exhibiting a film or photographs, giving a talk or
lecture or taking part in a public discussion.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC
10. A Subpostmaster should not, without the permission of Post Office Ltd, write to

or interview members of the public on Post Office® matters other than for the
purpose of correcting an error committed at his own sub Post Office® branch.

OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
11. No Subpostmaster may, without permission, make an official document or a

letter from the public, or any other document which may come into his hands
officially, the subject of legal proceedings.

USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE
PURPOSES

12. No Subpostmaster may use his position to further his private interests, or act in

any way which might give rise to the suspicion that he has used, for private
purposes, information available to him in his capacity as Subpostmaster.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

13. A Subpostmaster must report to Post Office Ltd any case in which there appears
to have been a breach of the above rules by anyone employed by him on Post
Office® duties at the sub Post Office® branch.

(APPENDICES 1-3 FOLLOW)

Section 12 Community July 2006_Divulgence of official information

POL00000246
POL00000246
SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 1

FORM P13

PERSONAL DECLARATION TO ROYAL MAIL GROUP (I.E. ROYAL
MAIL GROUP PLC AND ITS ASSOCIATED COMPANIES, INCLUDING

POST OFFICE LTD)
ROYAL MAIL GROUP'S OBLIGATIONS

Royal Mail Group must ensure that letters, parcels and all other communications or
items entrusted to it are delivered as addressed promptly and safely, and that the
information in them reaches no one not entitled to it.

To help Royal Mail Group provide this essential service to the community, there are
important legal requirements which you must comply with. It is important for you to
be aware of and understand those provisions, not only for your own sake but also in
order that you should not, through any fault or omission on your part, enable or tempt
others to break them.

SAFETY OF POSTAL PACKET

It is a criminal offence to STEAL, DESTROY or DAMAGE a letter, parcel, mailbag
or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post. It is also an offence to
OPEN or DELAY (without proper authority and reasonable excuse) a letter, parcel,
mailbag, or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post.

Persons suspected of criminal offences will be subject to investigation which may
lead to prosecution in the Criminal Courts. Heavy penalties, including terms of
imprisonment, are provided for such offences.

Other misconduct which endangers the safety of a mailbag or postal packet may lead
to termination of employment or engagement or contract with Royal Mail Group.

CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

You shall neither whilst employed or contractually bound by Royal Mail Group or
engaged in Royal Mail Group’s Business, nor after that employment or engagement
ceases, disclose to any other person, firm or company, or publish or broadcast or use
for your own benefit or for the benefit of a third party, any confidential information
relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of Royal Mail
Group or its business partners, except as previously authorised in writing by of Royal
Mail Group. Any unauthorised disclosure may amount to a criminal offence.

POL00000246
POL00000246
APPEN

1- FORM P13 (continued)

OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT

A person may be entrusted with information which is covered by the Official Secrets
Act 1989 whilst engaged on business for the Royal Mail Group.

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is a criminal offence for a Government
contractor (which means any person or body who is employed in the provision of
goods or services for the Crown) including any employee of a Government
contractor, to: -

e — disclose unlawfully any information obtained as a result of such
work without authorisation, and

. fail to safeguard or improperly retain or provide access to
documents or articles containing information which it would be
an offence under the Act to disclose.

The above conditions apply even when work with Royal Mail Group ends.
DATA PROTECTION ACT

Any person who handles information about identifiable living people whether
processed electronically or manually may also commit an offence under the Data
Protection Act 1998 if he/she improperly obtains, holds, uses or discloses any such
information.

YOU SHOULD READ THIS DOCUMENT CAREFULLY AND THEN SIGN
YOUR NAME TO THE DECLARATION BELOW.

I HAVE READ AND FULLY UNDERSTAND BOTH PAGES OF THIS
DOCUMENT AND HAVE RECEIVED A COPY TO RETAIN:

Full Name 2.0.2... 2200000 cccccccceee eee cecne eee eter teens neeeeeeeeeesersnsseeeteeeesenenneee
(Block Letters)

Sigmature.....00.. 2.0 e eee ee ee eeeee eee Date....000.. eee

In the presence of:

Signature... ee... cece e eee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeens

Job Title/Position. ............ ccc cee ce cece cece cece cece eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneeaee

NOTE - The person signing this form should sign with his ordinary signature in the
presence of a witness. [IThe Subpostmaster/Franchisee/Operator/Officer in
charge should witness the signature of persons employed at a sub or franchise

Post Office® branch]]

Retention Period: I ]

POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246

SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 2

SUMMARY OF EXTRACTS FROM ACTS OF PARLIAMENT

1. Theft Act 1968/Criminal Damage Act 1971
The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft
Act 1968 or Criminal Damage Act 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for
such offences are liable under the relevant sections of those Acts to
imprisonment.

2. POSTAL SERVICES ACT 2000
Section 83 - Interference with the mail
Any person engaged in the business of a postal operator commits an offence if
contrary to his duty and without reasonable excuse he intentionally delays or
opens a postal packet in the course of its transmission by post, or intentionally
opens a mailbag. Persons convicted on indictment shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine, or both.

Section 125(1)
Postal packet means a letter, parcel, packet or other article transmissible by post.

Schedule 7 Unauthorised Disclosure of Information

Any person who makes an unauthorised disclosure of information obtained
whilst dealing with work of a universal service provider, which relates to the
affairs of an individual or a particular business commits a criminal offence
POL00000246
POL00000246

SECTION 16 [12 COMMUNITY, 12(M) MODIFIED]
APPENDIX 3 FORM P301

NON-DISCLOSURE STATEMENT - OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT AND CONFIDENTIAL.
INFORMATION (To be signed by all persons ceasing to be employed or contractually
bound by or engaged in the Royal Mail Groups Business (ie Royal Mail Group ple and its
associated companies including Post Office Ltd); and by other persons on ceasing to have
access to secret information)

My attention has been drawn to:-

1. the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 (the “Act”) and that under the Act itis a
criminal offence for a Government contractor (which means any person or body who is
employed in the provision of goods or services for the Crown) including any employee
or agent of a Government contractor, to:

e disclose unlawfully any information obtained as a result of such work
without authorisation, and

* — fail to safeguard or improperly retain or provide access to documents or
articles containing information which it would be an offence under the Act to
disclose.

lam fully aware that serious consequences may follow any breach of these provisions.

2. the fact that I must not disclose to any other person, firm or company, or publish or
broadcast or use for my own benefit any confidential and/or commercial information
relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of the Royal Mail
Group, or information obtained whilst engaged in Royal Mail Group’s business except
as previously authorised in writing by the Royal Mail Group. Any unauthorised
disclosure may amount to a criminal offence.

I understand that the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 and requirements regarding
confidential information may apply to me after my appointment has ceased;

Thereby declare that I have surrendered any equipment and any document including any
electronic document and back-up disc made or acquired by me owing to my official position,
save such as I have Royal Mail Group’s written authority to retain.

CONTENTS

COMMUNITY SUBPO STMASTERS’ CONTRACTAND STATU:
11 CONTRACT...
1.2. PO RULES AND POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS.
1.3. CONTRACT - CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS,
14, REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER.......

REM UNERATION
21. GENERAI
2.2. QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION ..

COMMUNITY SUBPO STMASTERS’ ABSENCE FROM OFFICE
3.1. GENERAI
3.2, ABSENCE ON HOLIDAY ..
3.3, ABSENCE DURING SICKNESS.
3.4, ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

STATUTORY SIC K PAY SC HEME
4.1. INTRODUCTION
4.2. GENERAL...
4.3, EXCLUSIONS
44, QUALIFYING CONDITIONS
45. NOTIFICATION OF SICKNE!
4.6. EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS...
47. END OF ENTITLEMENT TO STATUTORY SICK PAY
48. RULES OF PAYMENT...
49. SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION SCHEME

RESIG NATION AND RETIREM ENT.
5.1. RESIGNATION ..
5.2. RETIREMENT

NATIONALINSURANCE
6.1. CLASSIFICATIONS.
6.2. PERSONS TAKING UP APPOINTMENT AS A COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTER.
6.3. CONTRACTING OUT...
6.4. CONTRIBUTIONS...
65. MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS
6.6. NON LIABLE SUBPOSTMASTERS.
6.7, ARREARS OF REMUNERATION
6.8. DEATH OF SUBPOSTMASTERS..
6.9. HOLIDAY AND SICK ABSENCE PAYMENTS:
6.10. SICKNESS BENEFIT:
6.11. COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS WITH MORE THAN ONE EMPLOYME!
6.12. COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTERS SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT

REINSTATEMENT ..
6.13. CHANGES IN NATIONAL INSURANCE STATUS
6.14. DEFERMENT OF NORMAL RETIREMENT DATE
6.15. RESIGNATION / TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT
6.16. MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS
6.17. CANCELLATION OF ELECTION TO PAY AT REDUCED RATE
6.18. ACTUAL EXPENSES INCURRED...

INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINALATIAC
7A, REPORTS.

7.2. POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD PERSONNEL CRIMINAL INJURY COMPENSATION SCHEME

7.3. EXCLUSIONS,
7A, CONDITIONS
75. CLAIMS PROCEDURE,
76. EVIDENCE..
7.7. THE GOVERNMENT’S SCHEME...

POL00000246
POL00000246
. HOURS OF ATTENDANCE.

. ASSISTANTS.

. DIVULG ENC E OF OFFICIALINFO RMATION, CORRESPONDENCE AND INTERVIEWS

. SUBPO STM ASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS AC TIVITIES

. NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES: APPEALS PRO C EDURE

. OFFENCES: SUSPENSION .

RESPONSIBILITY FOR PO STO FFICE STOCK AND CASH
8.1. CREDIT STOCK OF STAMPS.
8.2. CASH BALANCE
8.3. ACCOUNTS.
84. SECURITY OF CASH, STAMPS ETC. ....
8.5. LOSSES ..
8.6. GAINS..
8.7. THEFT OR BURGLAR
8.8. MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK
8.9, RELIEF...

10.1. GENERAL...
10.2. ADVERTISING OF HOURS...

11.1. GENERA
11.2. ASSISTANTS CONDITIONS OF SERVICE...
11.3, AGI . .
114. SUITABILITY OF APPLICANT - REFERENCES. .

115. PERSONAL DECLARATION.
116. SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANT ACCUSED OR SUSPECTED OF DISHONESTY ETC.
117. UNSUITABLE PERSONS...
118. OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK

12.1. DIVULGENCE OF OFFICE INFORMATION.
12.2. PERSONAL DECLARATION.
12.3. CONTACT WITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA
12.4. PUBLICATION OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION:
12.5. CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC
12.6. OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDING:
12.7. USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE PURPOSES
12.8. BREACHES TO BE REPORTED...

13.1. PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES..
13.2. BETTING AND GAMBLING
13.3. LICENSED PREMISES.
13.4. POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
13.5. USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINE:
13.6. CANVASSING .....
13.7. EMPLOYMENT IN THE POST OFFICER OF THE CIVIL SERVICE
13.8. BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY...
13.9, USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINESS.

14.1. ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVATION OF RULE!
14.2. REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS
14.3, APPEALS...
14.4. APPROACHES TO PERSONS OUTSIDE THE POST OFFICE

15.1. ARRESTS AND CONVICTION.
15.2. IMMORALITY AND OTHER MATTERS OF PERSONAL CONDUCT.
15.3, SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE...
15.4, CRIMINAL CONDUCT: REPORTING
15.5. INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES..
15.6. THEFT BY STRANGER...
15,7. FAILURE TO REPORT DISHONESTY.
15.8. ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE POST OFFI‘
15.9. FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS,
15.10. © SEARCHES........0:0:0000 sevsessnneeeene

INVESTIGATION DIVISION

POL00000246
POL00000246
16.

17

18.

19.

20.

. TELEPHONE FACILITIES.

POL00000246
POL00000246

INFECTIOUS (INCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES 0 nummnnannnnnnnnnnnins Q

PROVISION OF TELEPHONE FACILIT
REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATION COSTG..............
REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATION CHARGES.

CALL UNIT ALLOWANC!
EMERGENCY REPAIRS... a 7
REIMBURSEMENT OF VAT CHARGES. 51

QUALITY STANDARDS ss 52
18.1. WAITING TIME...
18.2. TRANSACTIONS
18.3. SUBPOSTMASTER ERRORS: MAXIMUM PENALTIES oe i ond 3

REDEMPTION OF TELEPHONE, TELEVISION MOTOR VEHICLE
AND OTHER SAVINGS STAMPS... td S

MAILWORK..
GENERAL
ACCOMMODATION AND FITTING! ~
ATTENDANCE 7
ACCESS TO PREMISES......
POST OFFICE OBLIGATION:
CHANGES TO FACILITIES
REMUNERATION
WITHDRAWAL OF MATLWORK (ncn
CHANGES IN CONDITIONS OF SERVICE,
ACCOMMODATION SPI ‘ATION. 59-61
SUBPOSTMASTER SPECIFICATION 62-66
ROYAL MAIL SPECIFICATION ... 67-70
PAYMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK. 7 o 7 oud 1
MAILWORK INDEX... . . 72

dit
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 1

COMMUNITY SUBPO STM ASTERS’ CONTRACTAND STATUS

CONTRACT

1.

i

The contract is a contract for services and consequently the Subpostmaster is an agent and not an
employee of Post Office Counters Ltd.

Alll references to Subpostmasters are to be construed as Community Subpostmasters including
Community Subpostmistresses unless otherwise stated or implied from the context.

The Subpostmaster must provide and maintain, at his own expense, reasonable office accommodation
required by Post Office Counters Ltd, and pay also at his own expense, any assistants he may need to
carry on Post Office Counters business.

The hours of attendance (liable to variation) are:-

to to
TO reccssennee to on Sundays
to to
to to on Bank Holidays
to on week days to

to on Public Holidays
to on days, except when registered items or parcels are on hand

for despatch, when it may be necessary to attend at

The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the sub-office personally but he is required, whether he is
there or not, to accept full responsibility for the proper running of his sub-office and the efficient
provision of those Post Office services which are required to be provided there. Retention of the
appointment as Subpostmaster is dependent on the sub-office being well managed and the work
performed properly to the satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd.

The Subpostmaster is informed at the time of his appointment of the classes of business he is required
to provide. He must also undertake, if called upon to do so later, any other class of business not
required at the time of his appointment but which Post Office Counters Ltd may subsequently and
reasonably require him to do, except that Post Office Counters Ltd may not require him to undertake
mailwork where the Subpostmaster did not undertake to do so as part of the terms of his
appointment.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

7. If Post Office Counters Ltd alters the services to be provided or withdraws a service the
Subpostmaster has no claim to compensation for any disappointment which may result from the
change.

8. The terms of the appointment of Subpostmaster do not entitle the holder to be paid sick or annual
leave, pension or to compensation for loss of office.

9. If on resignation of his appointment the Subpostmaster disposes of his private business and/or
premises in which the sub-office is situated, the person acquiring the private business and/or the
premises or exchanging contracts in connection with the purchase of the private business and/or
premises will not be entitled to preferential consideration for appointment as Subpostmaster.

10. Should the Subpostmaster desire to resign his office he must give three calendar months notice in
writing failing which he shall be liable to bear any expense incurred by Post Office Counters Ltd in
consequence. The Agreement may be determined by Post Office Counters Ltd at any time in case of
Breach of Condition by him, or non-performance of his obligation or non-provision of Post Office
Services, but otherwise may be determined by Post Office Counters Ltd on not less than three months
notice.

11. The Subpostmaster will display a vacancy notice in the Sub-Post Office window at the time of his
resignation if so required by the Regional General Manager.

12. Upon the his appointment the Community Subpostmaster will be assigned a particular rate of
remuneration relative to the amount of business transacted at his office and the number of hours for
which service must be provided.

PO RULES AND PO STALINSTRUC TIONS

13. SECTIONS 1-19 contain the general terms of a Subpostmaster’s appointment. Post Office Counters
Ltd issues the Subpostmaster with rules and Postal Instructions which deal with the various classes of
Post Office Business to be transacted at his sub-office.

14. The rules provided for the instruction and guidance of Subpostmasters must be kept up to date. They
must be carefully studied and applied. No breach of rules will be excused on the grounds of
ignorance.

15. I Operational rules are intended for the instruction and guidance of both the Subpostmaster and the
staff which he employs at his sub-office. The Subpostmaster must ensure that his Sub-Office
Assistants carry out their duties in accordance with the rules and instructions affecting their
respective duties.

16. Certain Postal Instructions are supplied to mailwork offices for the use of the postmen employed
there and should be kept in a position where they are readily available for reference. These particular
instructions and rules do not apply to Subpostmasters.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

17. Duties - The principal duties at present required have been marked on the following list:-

Sale of Postage Stamps. Filling and clearing of Stamp-Selling Machines. Treatment of Postal Packets,
including Overseas Parcels, Despatch and receipt of Mails.

Business connected with:

Postal Orders Telephone Accounts
Pension Allowances Telephone Saving Stamps
Saving Certificates National Insurance
Savings Bank, Government Stock and Annuities I Premium Savings Bonds
Television Licences Local Taxation Licences
Television Licence Savings Stamps Girobank

Motor Vehicle Licence Saving Stamps Community Charge.

CONTRACT- CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS

18. Changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which are agreed with
the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, will appear from time to time in Counter News or by
amendment to the Contract. Such changes and instructions are deemed to form part of the
Subpostmaster’s contract.

REGIONAL G ENERALMANAGER

19.  Allinstructions received from the Regional General Manager should be carried out as promptly as
possible.

END

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 2

REMUNERATION

GENERAL

1.

Upon his appointment, the Community Subpostmaster will be assigned to a particular rate of
remuneration relative to the amount of business transacted or expected to be transacted at his Sub-
Office. Subject to paragraph 4 hereof, this rate of remuneration will remain unchanged throughout
the period of the contract, subject only to periodic uplifting of the Community Scale. In the event of a
change in the number of standard hours on which service is required to be provided, the Retail
Network Manager will have the opportunity to reassess the rate of remuneration accordingly.

The remuneration paid to Community Subpostmasters will be eligible for enhancement by any of the
Individual Cash Allowances paid to Subpostmasters for specific work. If appropriate, Community
Subpostmasters will also be eligible, should they perform the work, for payment in respect of special
exercises, as well as for the Special Cash Allowance.

Remuneration is paid monthly, in arrears, normally at the rate of 1/12th of the annul remuneration.
The Community Sub-Post Offices pay scale will be revised from time to time following negotiation

between Post Office Counters Ltd and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters. In this event,
Community Subpostmasters will be personally notified of their new rate of remuneration.

QUESTIONS ABOUT REMUNERATION

5.

If the Community Subpostmaster considers that the foregoing rules concerning his remuneration
have not been correctly applied in the case of his Sub-Office, he should initially take representations
to the Retail Network Manager. If he is dissatisfied with the outcome of such representations he may
appeal to the Regional General Manager whose decision shall be final.

END

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 3

COMMUNITY SUBPO STMASTERS’ ABSENCE FROM OFFICE

GENERAL

1.

Under the terms of his contract, the Community Subpostmaster is not obliged to render personal
services and is therefore free to absent himself from the office, provided he makes suitable
arrangements for the conduct of the office during his absence.

He should notify the Regional General Manager on form P2593 when he will be away for any period
exceeding seven consecutive days.

The Community Subpostmaster’s responsibility for the proper conduct of his office, or for any losses
occurring during his absence, is in no way diminished by his absence from the Sub-Office. He must
make proper provision, at his own expense, for the conduct of his office while he is away, but
assistance towards the cost of his own substitution may be provided in respect of certain absences, if
he normally renders personal services.

ABSENCE ON HOUDAY

4,

The Community Subpostmaster is not entitled to annual leave as such, but those who normally
render personal services may be able to claim reimbursement of the necessary cost of substitution
when taking a holiday. This reimbursement of the actual costs of the substitution is paid as a Holiday
Substitution Allowance, and is the net additional cost necessarily incurred by the Community
Subpostmaster in providing during his own absence Post Office Counters Ltd duties which he
normally performs personally. The amount of reimbursement, which will be restricted to the
standard hours on which service is normally provided, will be subject to a limit of one and a half
times the Community Subpostmaster’s payment for the period for which the substitution was
performed, including employees Class 1 National Insurance Contribution.

The Community Subpostmaster with less than 10 years service may claim Holiday Substitution
Allowance in respect of the number of standard hours that he would normally provide during 7
weeks in a period of 24 months beginning 1 April in every odd year. This allowance will be increased
to the number of standard hours that he would normally provide during 8 weeks in a period of 24
months beginning 1 April in every odd year for a Community Subpostmaster with 10 years service or
more.

The Community Subpostmaster must do his best to find his own substitute and make all necessary
arrangements for his own absence, which should be notified to the Regional General Manger on form
P2593. In cases of difficulty the Regional General Manager or the secretary of the local branch of the
National Federation of Sub-postmaster may be able to give him the names and addresses of local
people known to be willing to offer their services as holiday reliefs to Subpostmasters. Responsibility
for concluding agreement with such people remains with the Community Subpostmaster concerned.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

Formal claims for Holiday Substitution Allowance should be made on forms P2340 and P2340(a)
which must be submitted to the Regional General Manager within three months of the end of the
period of substitution to which the claim relates. The Subpostmaster must certify:-

(a) _ that he has taken a holiday from both the Sub-Office and from any associated private business
during the whole period covered by the claim;

(b) _ that if the Subpostmaster holds more than one appointment he was absent from all his Sub-
Offices at the same time;

(©) _ that, in respect of the services he provides as Community Subpostmaster, he has actually and
necessarily incurred additional expenditure equating to the amount claimed, in respect of a
paid substitute or substitutes with the exception of members of his family who normally, rather
than occasionally, participate in this work.

Where the Community Subpostmaster is also an employee of the Post Office either on a full or part-
time basis, e.g.. Allowance Deliverer, it is essential, in view of the terms of the certificate required as a
condition of refundment of the cost of his substitution as Community Subpostmaster, that during any
period of holiday as Community Subpostmaster he should be absent from all other Post Office work.

ABSENCE DURING SIC KNESS

9.

10.

Subject to certain conditions and limitations descried in sub-paragraph 10. hereof, he is entitled to
claim Sick Absence Substitution Allowance in respect of the cost of substitution necessarily incurred
when he is absent from his Sub-Office through illness.

With the exception of women over 65 and men over 70 years of age, all Community Subpostmasters
who are absent from their Sub-Offices through illness, are eligible to claim Sick Absence Substitution
Allowance in respect of each appointment where personal services are normally rendered. For the
purposes of this scheme a week is defined as the number of standard hours on which service is liable
to be provided in any consecutive period of 7 days. The allowance is payable subject to, and in
accordance with, the following conditions:-

(a) _ the allowance will be payable when the period of any continuous sick absence amounts to three
calendar weeks or more and it will be paid retrospectively for all but the first week of absence;

(b) payment of the allowance will be limited to an aggregate period of 13 calendar weeks in any
consecutive period of 12 months;

(however, where a Community Subpostmaster is incapacitated by an accident or illness which
results, or is likely to result, in a continuous absence beyond 13 weeks, Regional General
Managers may authorise payment of the allowance to be extended up to a maximum period of
26 weeks in any one period of 12 months. Where a Community Subpostmaster has already
received up to 12 weeks of the Sick Absence Substitution Allowance entitlement in the previous
12 months he may, because of an extended illness be authorised by the Regional General
Manager to receiver the allowance up to a maximum of 26 weeks in total of any one period of
12 months. Any extension allowed under this paragraph must be in respect of one continuous
period of sick absence. In no circumstances will more than one such extension be allowed in
any one period of 12 months.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

(d) where Community Subpostmaster’s period of reimbursement of sick absence substitution costs
is extended beyond the 13 calendar continuous weeks, such an extension will be reviewed
periodically; under no circumstances will the Community Subpostmaster be allowed to
aggregate separate periods of sick absence beyond 13 weeks in any one period of 12 months.

(e) _ the maximum allowance payable will be the total amount calculated by applying the
Community Subpostmaster’s appropriate Holiday Substitution Allowance rate for the period
for which Sick Absence Substitution Allowance is payable, or the actual additional costs of
substitution incurred for the same period, whichever is the lesser.

(f) the maximum amount of the allowance for the period of absence for which an allowance is
payable will be abated, where applicable, by the statutory national insurance sickness benefit or
maternity allowance for the same period. Where however, a Community Subpostmistress
receives a NH Maternity Grant, the substitution allowance should not be reduced by the
amount of that grant. (Note: statutory national insurance sickness benefit means that benefit
which is payable to a person otherwise than in respect of another person who is a child or an
adult dependent.) Where a Community Subpostmaster is not eligible for DSS benefits, a
medical certificate should accompany the claim for payment of the substitution allowance.

11. Any Community Subpostmaster who qualifies for the Sick Absence Substitution Allowance, and can
produce evidence to show that substitution costs were incurred, should submit a claim to the
Regional General Manager after he has been absent for 3 calendar weeks. Thereafter he should claim
the allowance at the end of each subsequent period of absence of 4 weeks (or at the end of the period
of absence if that is reached earlier). Claim forms (P3485) will be supplied by the Regional General
Manager on request.

12. Where an eligible Community Subpostmaster as defined above is absent sick for a period of less than
3 weeks, and does not qualify for payment of the Sick Absence Substitution Allowance, he will be free
to claim, in respect of any substitute for him, Holiday Substitution Allowance for the period of
absence up to the limit of any outstanding balances of his HSA entitlement. Forms P2340 and
P2340(a) should be used by Community Subpostmasters when making these claims . The amounts
payable will not be subject to abatement of any national insurance sickness benefit received. Any
period of sick absence for which HSA (as distinct from Sick Absence Substitution Allowance) is paid
will count against the HSA entitlement.

ABSENCE FOR JURY SERVICE

13. A Community Subpostmaster who receives a summons to serve on a jury should notify his Regional
General Manager immediately, and inform him of the arrangements which he proposes to make for
the conduct of the work of the Sub-Office in his absence. Where exceptionally the Community
Subpostmaster is unable to find a substitute and the Sub-Office is temporarily closed on account of
the absence of the Community Subpostmaster on jury service, payment to the Community
Subpostmaster for the period of closure will be withheld. Community Subpostmasters attending for
jury service should claim from the court any allowances for which they are eligible in respect of
travelling and subsistence and, where appropriate, compensation for loss of remuneration. If a
Community Subpostmaster is in need of advice as to the allowances to which he is entitled, he should
seek it from the official responsible for the issue of the summons.

END

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 4

STATUTORY SIC K PAY SCHEME

INTRODUCTION

1.

Under the terms of the Social Security and Housing Benefits Act 1982 employers are responsible for
statutory sick pay arrangements in respect of their employees. An employee is interpreted as
including office holders who receive emoluments liable for income tax under Schedule E.
Subpostmasters come within this category and consequently Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged to
comply with the conditions of the Act.

2. The use of the words “employee” and “employer” are used in the context of this particular piece of
legislation and do not in any way alter the Subpostmaster’s status as an independent contractor.

GENERAL

3. Under the terms of the Scheme most Subpostmasters will not get State sickness benefit for their first
twenty eight weeks of sickness in each tax year. Instead they will get Statutory sick pay, known as
SSP, from Post Office Counters Ltd. SSP is paid at a flat rate. There are 2 weekly rates and eligibility
depends on an employee’s average earnings over a specified period. There are no allowances for
dependants. SSP is taxable and subject to NI contributions.

EXCLUSIONS

4, A Subpostmaster will not get statutory sick pay if he comes within one of the following groups. If a

Subpostmaster falls within one of these groups he should still notify his Regional General Manager
about his sickness.

A Subpostmaster reaches the end of his entitlement to SSP from Post Office Counters Ltd when:

(a) Subpostmasters who already had twenty eight weeks of SSP from Post Office Counters Ltd in a
tax year in any one period of incapacity for work (referred to as PIW)(linked or unlinked);

(b) _ his linked PIW with Post Office Counters Ltd has run for 3 years.
(©) _ she is pregnant and reaches the ‘disqualifying period’.

(d) _ his contract for service ends;

(ce) Subpostmasters who fall sick in a country outside the EEC.

(f) he is no longer incapable of work, i.e. he returns to work or stops sending certificates of
incapacity.

(g) he is taken into legal custody.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

QUAUFYING CONDITIONS

5. Statutory Sick Pay can only be paid for qualifying days. It has been agreed with the National
Federation of Sub-Postmasters that qualifying days for Subpostmasters will be those days they are
normally required to provide the services detailed in Section 1 of this contract. Where
Subpostmasters are required to give services for only part of the day, that day will count in full for
statutory sick pay purposes. For the majority of Subpostmasters there will be six qualifying days in
each week (Monday to Saturday). if a Subpostmaster is in doubt about which days are regarded as
qualifying days he should seek confirmation from his Regional General Manager.

6. The entitlement of a Subpostmaster to SSP. rests on 6 qualifying conditions, all of which must be
fulfilled.

(a) The Subpostmaster must have notified his Regional General Manager of his absence.
(b) Days sickness must be days of incapacity;
(©) The Subpostmaster must provide evidence of incapacity.

(d) Period of incapacity for work (PIW) must be formed and PIW consist of 4 or more consecutive
days, including Saturdays, Sundays and Public Holidays, when a Subpostmaster is
incapacitated for work. It is immaterial for this purpose whether or not the Subpostmaster
would normally have worked on those days. PIW’s which are separated by 8 weeks (56
calendar days) or less are linked and count together as a single PIW.

(e) When a Subpostmaster falls into one or more of the categories listed below he will be
excluded from receiving SSP. A Subpostmaster who has been excluded cannot return to
SSP entitlement during the course of a PIW, nor at the start of a PIW which links with a
previous one during which he was excluded even though he ceases to be a member of an
excluded group.

(i) Over State pension age

A Subpostmaster who is over State pension age (65 for a man, 60 for a woman) is
excluded from SSP. However, if when a Subpostmaster reaches State pension age he has
a PIW which links with a previous one, he will be entitled to SSP for as long as his PIW’s
continue to link.

(ii) Short contract workers

A Subpostmaster whose contract of employment is for a specified period of 3 calendar
months or less is excluded from SSP. However, if the contract does not at first exceed 3
months, but a Subpostmaster works past the time stated in the contract so that the total
period worked becomes more than 3 calendar months the employee becomes entitled to
SSP as soon as it is known that the total period will be more than 3 calendar months.

(iii) Low average earnings

‘A Subpostmaster whose average earnings are less than the lower earnings limit for NI
contribution liability is not entitled to SSP. When one PIW links with a previous one, the
first day in the carlier PIW is used for calculating an employee's average earnings.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

(iv) Recent State benefit entitlement

A Subpostmaster who has received, or in some cases claimed but not received, certain
State benefits within the 8 weeks period before the first day of a PIW is not entitled to
SSP. The benefits are:

- sickness benefit

- invalidity benefit

- severe disablement allowance;

- state maternity allowance (but not statutory maternity Pay)

- unemployment benefit, but only in very limited circumstances.

(v) No work done

A Subpostmaster who has done no work under a contract of employment is not entitled
to SSP under that contract. If he is a new employee and he reports sick before he takes up
duty, he is not entitled to SSP. However, if he reports for work on his first day of service,
but goes sick on the second, he is entitled to SSP if he fulfils the other qualifying
conditions.

(vi) Trade dispute;

If a Subpostmaster is participating ina stoppage of work due to a trade dispute, he may
be excluded from SSP.

(vii) Pregnancy;

There is a “disqualifying period” during which the Subpostmistress is not entitled to SSP.
The “disqualifying period” begins with the 11th week before the expected week of
confinement and runs for 18 weeks. This is the same as the period for entitlement to state
or statutory maternity pay to which the Subpostmistress is entitled provided she fulfils
the appropriate conditions.

(viii) Already been due 28 weeks SSP from former employer's);

‘A Subpostmaster is excluded from SSP if he gives his Regional General Manager a
Ieaver’s statement (SSP 1(L)) showing that he has been due 28 weeks SSP from his former
employer(s) and the gap between the first day of the PIW (with the new employer) and
the last day of SSP shown on the leaver’s statement is 8 weeks or less.

(ix) Abroad outside the EEC;

A Subpostmaster who is abroad outside the EEC at the start of a PIW is not entitled to
SSP. He is excluded even it the PIW links with a previous one when he was in the UK.

(x) Legal custody.

A Subpostmaster who is in legal custody on the first day of a PIW is not entitled to SSP.
“Legal custody” means that the person concerned is detained, usually arrested and/or in
prison. A person who is voluntarily helping Police with their enquiries is not excluded.
A Subpostmaster in legal custody is not entitled to SSP even if his PIW links with a
previous one when he was not in legal custody.

10
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

(f) Days of incapacity to be a qualifying day.

If a Subpostmaster becomes incapable of work part way through a day, that day cannot count
as a qualifying day unless he has not commenced work on that day.

NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS

7. A Subpostmaster or his representative must inform his Regional General Manger by telephone of his
incapacity for work on or before his first working day of sickness irrespective of whether he is entitled
to statutory sick pay.

8. Subpostmasters, including those nominated by limited companies, who hold more than one
appointment, must notify the appropriate Regional General Manager who is responsible for the
collection of primary National Insurance contributions in respect of his appointments. (See section 6,
paragraph 1)

9. If a Subpostmaster is late in giving notification of sickness, he should advise the Regional General
Manager of the reason for the delay. If the Regional General Manager is not satisfied with the reason
given for the delay, any period of sickness prior to the date of notification will not count for the
purposes of statutory sick pay. If a Subpostmaster is not satisfied with the Regional General
Manager's decision on this matter he may apply to the Department of Social Security for a ruling. If a
Subpostmaster does not qualify for statutory sick pay, he will on notification of sickness be sent a
form SSP1 (E) by his Regional General Manager.

EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS

10. Subpostmasters must provide Post Office Counters Ltd with evidence of incapacity for work by
means of either a doctor’s medical certificate of by a self certificate if the incapacity is less than eight
days. A proforma to be used for self certification can be obtained from the Regional General
Manager.

11. Subpostmasters must notify their Regional General Manager when they cease to be sick.

END OF ENTITLEMENT TO STATUTORY SIC K PAY

12. When a Subpostmaster has exhausted his entitlement to statutory sick pay he will be sent a form
SSPI(T), on which, if he is still sick, he can claim state sickness benefit from the Department of Social
Security.

RULES O F PAYMENT

13. In accordance with the Act, Post Office Counters Ltd is obliged to abate any remuneration due by the
appropriate amount of statutory sick pay. The effect of this will mean that for the first eight weeks of
sickness, remuneration will be paid in full and that statutory sick pay will be regarded as “notional”.
Consequently although statutory sick pay will be regarded as “notional” the total remuneration paid
the Subpostmaster will continue to attract income tax and National Insurance contributions in full.

11
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

DUAL EMPLOYMENT

14. Ifa Subpostmaster who is sick is also employed either by the Post Office (e.g. as an Auxiliary
Postman) or another employer, and provided national insurance contributions are paid separately for
cach employment and alll other conditions are met, he must claim statutory sick pay in respect of both
his Subpostmaster services and other employments

SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION SC HEME

15. The provisions of this Scheme, which are set out in Section 3 remain except that no claim will be
entertained unless the Regional General Manager has been properly notified of the Subpostmaster’s
sickness. Claims for reimbursement for up to 28 weeks’ sick absence will not be subject to abatement
in respect of Statutory Sick Pay. Claims for reimbursement for a period of sickness which does not
attract statutory sick pay will continue to be subject to abatement.

END

12
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 5

RESIGNATION AND RETIREMENT

RESIGNATION

1. ASubpostmaster who wishes to resign his appointment must give 3 calendar months notice in
writing. If he does not give notice Post Office Counters Ltd may require him to pay any expense
which it incurs in providing temporary arrangements to cater for the business which would normally
be expected to be transacted at the Sub-Office during any part of the 3 month notice period.

RETIREM ENT
2. There is no specific age limit for the retirement of a Subpostmaster.

3. Unless indicated otherwise by the Regional General Manager, a vacancy will be advertised at the
existing Sub-Office premises.

END

13
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 6
NATIONALINSURANCE
CLASSIFICATIONS
1. For national insurance purposes, a Subpostmaster is regarded as an office holder with emoluments

chargeable to income tax under schedule E. As such, all Subpostmasters are liable to make national

insurance contributions in accordance with the provisions of Class 1.
Class 1 contributions comprise 2 parts:-
(a) __ the Primary contribution which is generally known as the employee's contribution

(b) _ the Secondary contribution which is generally known as the employer's contribution,

PERSONS TAKING UP APPOINTMENTAS A COMMUNITY SUBPO STMASTER

2. All persons taking up an appointment as a Subpostmaster should supply the Regional General

Manager with their national insurance number by means of a NI number card, form P45 and/or P60

(see leaflet NI217) and also any current certificate of Earner’s non/reduced rate liability that they

have. Where for one reason or another a new Subpostmaster does not supply a NI, number the action

outlined in the Employer’s Guide to National Insurance Contributions (NP15) will be followed.

CONTRACTING OUT

3. Under the Social Security Act 1975, pensions for retirement, widowhood and invalidity consist of 2

parts:-
(a) _ basic pension;

(b) and additional pension related to an employce’s reckonable earnings between the lower earnings
limit and the upper earnings limit.

4. Anemployer may contract his employees out of that part of the State Scheme which provides an
additional pension if the Occupational Pensions Board is satisfied that his occupational pensions
scheme meets the conditions required by the Act, As Subpostmasters are not employees of Post

Office Counters Ltd they are ineligible to belong to the Post Office Staff Superannuation Scheme and

therefore are not contracted out of the State Scheme.

14
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

CONTRIBUTIONS

5. DSS leaflet NP15 “Employer’s Guide to National Insurance Contributions” gives a guide to the
contribution arrangements.

6. Provided that earnings reach or exceed the lower earnings limit, a Subpostmaster will be liable to pay
primary contributions on all earnings up to the upper earnings limit at:~

(a) _ the standard rate; or
(b) _ the reduced rate (see paragraph 8); or

(©) isnot liable for contributions because he/she is over pension age or has made other
arrangements (see paragraph 9).

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS

7. There is no longer a right to choose to pay reduced rate contributions. However, a woman entitled to
pay at the reduced rate for the 1977-78 tax year continues to be able to do so for subsequent years
unless:-

(a) _ she revokes her election;
(b) asa married woman her marriage ends in divorce or annulment;
(c) she becomes a widow and after the initial period becomes entitled to widow’s benefit;

(a) during 2 consecutive tax years which fall after 5 April 1978 she was neither liable to pay a Class
1 contribution nor was self-employed.

DSS will provide a certificate authorising deductions of a Class 1 contributor’s contribution at the
reduced rate. As Post Office Counters Ltd will be held responsible for any deficiencies in
contribution, deductions will be made at the standard rate unless the Subpostmistress produces a
valid certificate.

NON UABLE SUBPO STM ASTERS

8. Nocontributions are payable by men over 65 or women over 60 and in such circumstances DSS will
normally issue a certificate of age contribution. However, if some other definite evidence is being,
held to show that a Subpostmaster has reached age 65 (60 for a woman) his/her deductions may be
ceased even though a certificate of age exception has not been produced.

9. The Secondary contribution (see paragraph 2) is due at the same rate regardless of the
Subpostmaster’s rate of contribution or even where he is non-liable.

ARREARS OF REMUNERATION

10. Arrears of remuneration resulting from a revision or other payments made to adjust remuneration
paid in an earlier month, will be treated as part of the total remuneration in the month in which the
payment is made, regardless of the period for which they are proper to. This applies whether or not
the additional payments are made regularly.

11. Where arrears of remuneration are due to a former Subpostmaster national insurance contributions
will be calculated from the weekly contributions table published by DSS.

15
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

DEATH OF SUBPO STM ASTERS

12. Contributions are not payable on any remuneration that might be due to a Subpostmaster’s estate
after his death.

HOUDAY AND SICK ABSENCE PAYMENTS

13. Contributions are not due on any payments made under the holiday substitution or Sick Absence
Substitution schemes because all payments are made in respect of specific costs actually incurred.

SIC KNESS BEN EFITS

14. NI Contributions continue to be payable when a Subpostmaster who is sick continues to receive his
scale payment. NI sickness/industrial injury benefits received are not assessable for NI contribution.

COMMUNITY SUBPO STM ASTERS WITH MORE THAN ONE EMPLOYMENT
15. Primary Class 1 contributions are normally payable in respect of each job including other Sub-Office
appointments for which earnings exceed the lower earnings limit, unless a current form RD950 has

been received from DSS. Even where a form RD950 is held, POCL is obliged to collect Secondary
Class 1 contributions.

COMMUNITY SUBPO STM ASTERS SUSPENDED FROM OFFICE AND THEIR SUBSEQUENT REIN STA TEM ENT
16. Any payment withheld during suspension and subsequently paid upon reinstatement should be

treated as part of the total remuneration in the earnings period in which it is paid regardless of the
periods to which it relates. The NI contribution rate current at the time of payment should be applied.

CHANGESIN NATIONALINSURANCE STATUS

17. In the event of a change or impending change in national insurance status, a Subpostmaster should
consult his local DSS office as soon as possible.

18. The following are regarded as changes in status:

(a) WOMEN:
Divorce In these circumstances the Subpostmistress must advise
Annulment DSS and Post Office Counters Ltd
Marriage
Widowhood See paragraph 8
Re-marriage
Retirement age Towards the beginning of the tax year in which a woman

reaches age 60 and again at the approach of the
60th birthday, a Subpostmistress will be asked to
consult DSS so that a certificate of age exception
may be issued if appropriate (see also paragraph
9).

16
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

(b) MEN:

Retirement age At the approach of the 65th birthday the Subpostmaster
will be asked to consult DSS so that a certificate of
age exception may be issued if necessary (see also
paragraph 9).

DEFERM ENT OF NORMAL RETIREM ENT DATE

19, Inall cases where a Subpostmaster seeks to enhance his retirement pension by a deferment of NI
retirement date (normally the 60th birthday for women, the 65th birthday for men) see DSS leaflet
NI92 - or where he wishes to cancel his deferment, the Subpostmaster should be asked to consult his

local DSS office so that the necessary arrangements can be made and certificates of age exception
obtained.

RESIGNATION / TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT

20. When a Subpostmaster resigns or has his contract terminated the Guaranteed Minimum Pension will
be preserved by DSS.

MARRIED WOMEN AND WIDOWS

21. There will be no Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) for a married woman or a widow who has
retained the right to pay the reduced rate of NI contribution.

CANCELLATION OF ELECTION TO PAY ATREDUC ED RATE

22. When a married woman or widow revokes her election to pay NI contributions at the reduced rate
the GMP will accrue only on the contributions she pays after revoking her election.

ACTUAL EXPENSES INC URRED

23.  Subpostmasters who are asked by their Regional General Manager to give details of the expenditure
which they incur in providing Post Office services should do so with all haste. Such information will
be restricted to Post Office Counters Ltd and Department of Social Security.

END

17
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 7
INJURY RESULTING FROM CRIMINALATIACK
REPO RTS
1. If a Subpostmaster or one of his Assistants is injured in an attempted robbery of Post Office property

a report should be made at once to the Regional General Manager however slight these injuries may
appear to be. In addition, in order that entitlement to National Insurance (Industrial Injury) benefit
may be preserved it is important that the DSS should be informed without delay.,

POSTOFFICE COUNTERS LTD PERSONNEL C RIMINALINJURY COMPENSATION SC HEME
2. The scheme has application to Subpostmasters and their registered Sub-office Assistants and reliefs
and substitutes who sustain permanent physical injury during the theft/attempted theft of Post Office
property on the premises, in or out of normal business hours; or whilst travelling to/from the bank on
Post Office business.
3. For the purpose of the scheme, registered Sub-Office Assistants are those:
(a) whose commencement of employment has been reported to the Regional General Manager on
form P250 and thereafter recorded on form P356W at 1 April each year as being employed on
Post Office work full-time, part-time, occasionally, or

(b) whose employment as a temporary Assistant or Subpostmaster’s substitute has been reported
to the Regional Office on form P250.

Also covered is DISAPPEARANCE, if any of the categories of the people in (2) above is missing as a
result of criminal activity, and is presumed dead, a claim can be made subject to:

(a) satisfactory evidence supporting the disappearance being supplied.
(b) _ there is no reason to believe otherwise and
(©) a period of 3 years has elapsed.

Any payment thus made will be refunded if subsequently the person concerned is found to be alive.

EXCLUSIONS
4. The policy does not cover:-

(a) Bodily injury sustained whilst under the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs other than
drugs taken in accordance with treatment prescribed and directed by a qualified registered
medical practitioner but not for treatment of drug addiction;

(b) any consequence of pregnancy or childbirth;

(c) any pre-existing physical or mental defect or infirmity;

(d) war risks.

18
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

CONDITIONS

The maximum benefit payable to one individual in one insurance year is £60,000 irrespective of the number
of incident/claims which may have occurred. If the maximum benefit is paid to one individual in one
insurance year no further liability rests with POCL. POCL’s liability for a series of claims in any insurance
period for the same person, shall not exceed the maximum benefit (£60,000).

5.1

5.2

54

55

Any benefits payable under Parts 2 and 3 of the Schedule of Benefits, will only be paid on receipt of a
DSS Medical Assessment, confirming permanent disablement Data to be supplied to Post Office
Group Treasury, Risk Management at the address shown in part 6. Payment under Part 2 will not be
made before the expiry of 90 consecutive days of disablement. Fifty percent of the value of the
medical assessment of benefit may be paid on receipt of a 2 year provisional assessment. Any balance
will be paid ifa life assessment is given. Benefits payable are subject to the overriding maximum of
£60,000.

Benefits may be paid for more than one disability listed in Part 3 of the schedule of benefits, provided
that the total amount received does not exceed the maximum benefit of £60,000.

Any benefit Payable under Part 3 and/or 4 of the Schedule of Benefits will be deducted from the
maximum benefit (£60,000), if the individual concerned subsequently dies, or suffers permanent total
disablement as a result of the injuries received in the incident(s).

Any payment made under Part 4 of the Schedule of Benefits, can be made in advance of the
settlement of a claim under Parts 1, 2 or 3 of the schedule but is subject to an overriding maximum

benefit of (£60,000).

Benefits under Section 4 may be paid up to, but not exceeding 104 weeks, for total disablement arising
from a criminal attack while collecting cash from the bank for authorised Post Office business.

Payments may be made:-
(a) at the end of the period(s) of total disablement; or

(b) at the injured persons request, at the end of at least four weeks total disablement and thereafter
at four weekly intervals, if requested.

Payments are subject to the provision of medical and any other relevant information as requested by
POCL.

Disablement or Partial loss not specified in the schedule of benefits.

The percentage benefit will be in accordance with the DSS medical assessment.

CLAIMS PROC EDURE

6.

Claims must be made by the injured person (or his personal representative) within 3 months of the
date of the incident(s) direct to the insurer, Post Office Counters’ Ltd Agent, (Group Treasury)
Chetwynd House, Chesterfield, $49 1PF. Claim forms are available from the Regional General
Manager or the Headquarters of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, Evelyn House, 22
Windlesham Gardens, SHOREHAM BY SEA, West Sussex, BN34 5AZ.

19
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

EVIDENCE

7. All certificates and information shall be sent to POCL’s agent (Group Treasury) as and when
requested. If a Second opinion is required, an appointment will be made at a time and date mutually
acceptable. the cost will be met by the scheme. The injured person will as often as required, submit
to medical examination in respect of any alleged bodily injury.

8. _ In the event of any dispute, POCL reserves the right to take such disputes to an independent
insurance broker for arbitration.

9. Income Tax is not payable on any benefits under the scheme.

THE GOVERNMENTS SCHEME

10. Compensating victims for crimes of violence is administered by the Criminal Injuries Compensation
Board, whose address for ENGLAND and WALES is Whittington House, 19 Alfred Place, LONDON
WCIE 7EA, and for SCOTLAND is Blythswood House, 200 West Regent Street, GLASGOW G2 4SW.
Details of scheme can be obtained from the Board, Office of the Department of Social Security,
Department of Employment and Productivity and Citizens Advice Bureaux. Injuries which occur in
Northern Ireland, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man are outside the scope of the government
scheme.

(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

20
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
SCHEDULE OF BENEFITS
1. Death

2. Permanent total Disablement resulting in inability to follow any
occupation

3. Loss of/loss of use of limb(s) etc. and permanent disability in accordance

with the following permanent disabilities:-

PERMANENT TOTAL DISABLEMENT

Total loss of sight of both eyes

Total incurable insanity

Loss of both arms or both hands

Complete deafness of both ears of traumatic origin
Removal of lower jaw

Loss of speech

Loss of one arm and one leg

Loss of one arm and one foot

Loss of one hand and one foot

Loss of one hand and one leg

Loss of both legs

Loss of both feet

Loss of one eye

Complete Deafness of one ear

UPPER LIMBS

Loss of one arm or hand

Total loss of thumb

Partial loss of thumb (ungual phalanx)

Total amputation of forefinger

Amputation of two phalanges of forefinger

Amputation of ungual phalanx of forefinger

Simultaneous amputation of thumb and forefinger
Amputation of thumb and finger other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of two fingers other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of three fingers other than thumb and forefinger
Amputation of three fingers and thumb

Amputation of four fingers excluding thumb

Amputation of the median finger

Amputation of a finger other than thumb, forefinger and median

21

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 1

£60,000
£60,000
expressed as a

percentage
of £60,000

100%

30-40%
20%
LEFT/RIGHT
60%
30%
10%
14%
1%
9%
35%
30%
12%
30%
15%
50%
12%

7%

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
LOWER LIMBS

Amputation of thigh (upper half)

Amputation of thigh (lower half) and leg

Total loss of foot (tibio-tarsal disarticulation)
Partial loss of foot (sub-ankle-bone disarticulation)
Partial loss of foot (medio-tarsal disarticulation)
Partial loss of foot) (tarso-metatarsal disarticulation)
Shortening of the lower limb by at least Sem
Shortening of the lower limb by at least 3 to 5em
Shortening of the lower limb by 1 to 3em

Total amputation of all toes

Amputation of four toes including big toe
Amputation of four toes

Amputation of big toe

Amputation of two toes

Amputation of one toe other than the big toe

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 1

expressed as a
percentage
of £60,000
80%

70%

30%

30%

30%

20%

40%

40%

40%

20%

14%

%

14%

Benefit from other injuries will be paid according to DSS assessment all occurring within 24 months of bodily injury or

incident giving rise to a claim.

Total disablement arising from criminal attack whilst collecting Post Office cash from the Bank, entirely preventing the
injured person from engaging in, or giving attention to his/her usual occupation - £200 per week for each full week

(one week =7 days).

END

22

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 8

RESPO N SIBILITY FOR PO STO FFICE STOCK AND CASH

CREDIT STOCK OF STAMPS

1. The Subpostmaster on taking up his appointment is supplied with suitable Post Office stock, the
amount of which is fixed by the Regional General Manager.

CASH BALANCE

2. The Subpostmaster is permitted to hold Post Office Counters Ltd cash normal to meet payments at his
sub-office after due allowance has been made for expected receipts and in accordance with official
accounting and security instructions.

3. The Subpostmaster is expressly forbidden to make use of the balance due to Post Office Counters Ltd.
for any purpose other than the requirements of the Post Office service; and he must, on no account
apply to his own private use, for however short a period, any portion of Post Office Counters Ltd
funds entrusted to him. He must also be careful to keep the Post Office money separate from any
other monies. Misuse of Post Office Counters Ltd cash may render the offender liable to prosecution
and, or, the termination of his Contract of Appointment.

ACCOUNTS

4, The Subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him by Post Office
Counters Ltd are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters Ltd. He must immediately
produce these accounts, and the whole of his sub-office cash and stock for inspection whenever so
requested by a person duly authorised by the Regional General Manager.

SEC URITY OF CASH, STAMPS ETC.

5. The Subpostmaster is held strictly responsible for the safe custody of cash, stock of all kinds and other
Post Office Counters Ltd property, papers and documents, whether held by himself or by his
Assistants, and should keep them in a place of security, especially at night.

6. The Subpostmaster is responsible for maintaining a standard of security sufficient to enable him to
meet the obligations laid on him by paragraph 5 for the safe keeping of Post Office Counters Ltd cash
and stock placed in his care. If any circumstances arise which lead him to doubt whether he can do so
he should immediately consult the Retail Network Manager.

7. Indeciding the standard of security which it would be reasonable to require under paragraph 6 Post
Office Counters Ltd will have regard to (a) the circumstances in which the Subpostmaster was
appointed, and in particular the standard of security then accepted; (b) the length of time since his
appointment; and (c) any particular circumstances affecting the sub-office which appear to be
relevant.

8. All vouchers for payments e.g. Postal Orders, Allowance Dockets etc., should be placed in a suitable
receptacle (cardboard box or strong envelope), labelled “Paid Vouchers” and at the close of business
kept separately from cash and stock in another secure place, such as a locked drawer or cupboard.

9. The Subpostmaster must be careful to keep his stocks of all kinds in such a manner that they remain
in good condition. The stocks must be protected against damp and dust.

23
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

10. Datestamps used for authenticating documents (e.g. postal orders) or stamping correspondence must
be kept in a position on the counter where they are out of reach of members of the public. When not
needed for work they must be locked away.

11. Precautions should be taken to guard against the risk of fire.

Lo SSeS

12, The Subpostmaster is responsible for all losses caused through his own negligence, carelessness or
error, and also for losses of all kinds caused by his Assistants. Deficiencies due to such losses must be
made good without delay.

13. The financial responsibility of the Subpostmaster does not cease when he relinquishes his

appointment and he will be required to make good any losses incurred during his term of office
which may subsequently come to light.

GAINS

14.  Surpluses may be withdrawn provided that any subsequent charge up to the amount withdrawn is
made good immediately.

THEFT O R BURG LARY
15, Ifa theft or burglary is committed or attempted at a Sub-Office, whether or not official cash or stock is

stolen, the facts must be reported at once to the Police and to the Retail Network Manager by the
person who first makes the discovery.

MISSING OR STOLEN STOCK
16. If a Subpostmaster considers that any stock items have been accidentally lost, or stolen he should

make a report, in accordance with Appendix 1, as quickly as possible to the Regional General
Manager.

REUEF

Counter Losses

17. A Subpostmaster may exceptionally not be required to make good the full amount of certain losses at
his office. If he feels entitled to relief in making good a loss he should apply to the Retail Network
Manager.

Theft or burglary

18. The question of granting relief will depend upon whether the Subpostmaster has taken reasonable
precautions to safeguard the official cash and property.

Fraud

19. All cases of fraud or attempted fraud should be reported immediately to the Retail Network Manager.
(APPENDIX 1 FOLLOWS)

24
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 1
ACCIDENTAL LOSS

If at any time any items of stock (including stock of no intrinsic value such as passports, and motor vehicle
licences) is found to be missing, steps must at once be taken to ascertain what has happened to the
missing items, The serial must be ascertained (see 2(a) and verified by examination of items in stock,
and the requisition forms examined to discover whether or not any of the items purport to have been
issued out of sequence. All the requisition forms for the previous 3 months must at the same time be
impounded and held by instructions. If, after careful search, the missing items cannot be found and
are thought to have been mislaid only, or inadvertently destroyed, a preliminary report of the loss
giving the serial number of the items in question must be sent to the Regional General Manager.

STOLEN ITEMS

1. Ifasa result of burglary, break in, theft, or suspected theft, any items of stock are missing the facts
should be reported as quickly as possible to the Regional Manager.

2.. The further details which will be required and which should be obtained and submitted to the
Regional Manager at the earliest opportunity are as follows:-

(a) The denominations, total values and serial numbers of the missing or stolen items so far as they
are known, with serial numbers of any remaining stocks.

(b) Asstatement as to whether the date stamp of the sub-office has been stolen or, if not, whether
there is reason to believe that it has been used upon the stolen items.

(c)  Aspecimen impression of the date stamp and, if it was stolen, particulars of the type in it when
stolen.

(d) A statement of the circumstances which are thought to show that a theft has been committed
and of the supposed date, time and method of commission. It should include, if possible,
written reports from the person who last saw the missing items and the person who first
discovered the loss. The former should say when the items were last seen, in what place and in
what kind of receptacle (locked or unlocked) they then were. The latter should state how and
when the loss was discovered and describe exactly the condition of the place of the receptacle
from which the items were apparently taken.

(©) Particulars of any cheques, including service for which accepted.

END

24a
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTER LTD

SECTION 9

PREMISES

GENERAL

1.

The Community Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, provide premises in which such reasonable
office accommodation and fittings as Post Office Counters Ltd may require are made available for
carrying on Post Office Counter Ltd business. Normally, these premises will be owned by the
Community Subpostmaster or his spouse, or will be leased to him or his spouse on a tenancy.
However, in certain instances, the Regional General Manager may authorise the establishment of a
Community Sub-Office in premises which would normally not be acceptable in the case of a full-time
Sub-Office, such as domestic premises, church hall, Community centre ete., in which case the
Regional General Manger may agree, on request, to bear the reasonable one-off cost of adapting such
premises to make them suitable for the running of a Community Sub-Office.

The Community Subpostmaster must, at his own expense, ensure that the Sub-Office part of the
premises is kept clean and maintained to a good standard, and provided with adequate lighting and
heating. He may also be required to provide space for posting facilities.

The Regional General Manager will decide on the security precautions to be taken at each
Community Sub-Office, taking into account likely levels of cash holdings and possible risks in view of
local circumstances. The Community Subpostmaster may therefore be required to provide facilities
for the installation of such security equipment as the Regional General Manager considers necessary.

The Community Subpostmaster must not, without the prior agreement of the Regional General
Manager move the Sub-Office to premises other than those in which it was situated at the time of his
appointment, or alter the accommodation for carrying out the work of the Sub-Office from that
agreed at the time of his appointment.

NOTICESETC.

5.

The Community Subpostmaster must display, in a position visible to the public at all times, a notice
(supplied by the Regional General Manager) indicating days and times of opening, such other notices
and leaflets and the Regional General Manager may require.

25
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

A title which might suggest that Post Office Counters Ltd is concerned in the management of any
private business run by the Community Subpostmaster, such as “Post Office Stores” must be used.
No advertisements should be exhibited in the part of the premises used for Post Office Counters Ltd
business which relate to:-

(a) alcoholic liquors (for or against)

(b) _ betting, gambling or football pools;

(c) any illegal business or matter;

(d) any controversial or political matter, an advertisement for which might suggest the Post
Office supported one side of the other;

(e) any commercial business which operates services of any kind conducted by the Post
Office.

Otherwise Post Office Counters Ltd is not concerned with the display of commercial advertisements
in the Sub-Office, provided they are not placed in such a position as to impair the security or the
facilities for transacting Post Office business. In cases of doubt the matter should be referred to the
Regional General Manager.

END

26
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 10

HOURS OF ATTENDANCE

GENERAL

1. The standard opening hours of a particular Community Sub-Post Office are set by the Regional
General Manager. Provision of services outside of those hours will be at the Subpostmaster’s
discretion, but such provision will not attract additional remuneration.

2. Community Sub-Office will not normally be expected to open Saturday mornings.

3. Depending on the number of standard hours a Community Sub-Office must be open Regional
General Managers may, at the request of the Community Subpostmaster, authorise the closure of a
Community Sub-Office for up to 1 hour at lunchtime.

ADVERTISING OF HOURS

4, The days and hours of opening for Community Sub-Offices should be prominently displayed at the
office concerned, together with details of closure for national, local or annual holidays. The location
the nearest Post Office open for normal hours of business should also be displayed.

END

27
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 11

ASSISTANTS

GENERAL

1.

i

A Subpostmaster must provide, at his own expense, any assistance which he may need to carry out
the work in his Sub-Office.

Assistants are employees of the Subpostmaster. A Subpostmaster will be held wholly responsible for
any failure, on the part of his Assistants, to apply Post Office rules, or to provide a proper standard of
service to the public. He will also be required to make good any deficiency, of cash or stock, which
may result from his assistants’ actions.

ASSISTANTS CONDITIONS OF SERVICE

3.

AGE

Wages, hours, holidays etc., are a matter to be settled between Subpostmaster and the assistants
concerned. However, they should be no less favourable than those enjoyed by shop assistants
generally in the same region. Post Office Counters Ltd reserves the right to intervene if such
conditions are considered inequitable.

The Subpostmaster is responsible, as employer of his assistants, for complying with the provisions of
any legislation which imposes obligations on employers.

Asa general guide no person under 16 years of age should be employed on Sub-Office work, or have
access to mails, unless however there is no reasonable alternative to the part-time employment of an
Assistant under 16 years of age.

SUITABILITY OF APPLIC ANT - REFERENCES.

6.

In the light of the Subpostmaster’s responsibilities, set out in paragraph 2 above, he is strongly
recommended to satisfy himself of the character and suitability of an applicant for employment as an
assistant before a firm offer of employment is made. Generally the Subpostmaster should:-

(a) obtain proof of the identity of the applicant, e.g. birth or marriage certificate, unless the
applicant is known;

(b) _ seek information from the applicant about any conviction or finding of guilt for any offence in a
Court of Law (including Juvenile Court or Court Martial). In this connection the Subpostmaster
should be aware of the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 which restricts the information that
needs be given;

(c) enquire whether the applicant has ever been employed by the Post Office, worked for another
Subpostmaster or held Sub-Office appointment. If the former then details of such employment
should be entered on form P250 (see paragraph 8) and a reference awaited from the Regional
General Manager. If previously the applicant has worked at another Sub-Post Office, including
as a Subpostmaster, details should be given on form P250 and a reference in respect of that
employment sought from the Subpostmaster concerned;

28
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

(d) _ obtain references from all previous employers or schools attended over the last 3 years or from
the last employer where the applicant has been employed during the whole of that period.

7. When seeking references the Subpostmaster is advised to enquire if the applicant had found to be
completely trustworthy and ask the reason for his leaving that employment. In some instances a
Subpostmaster might have to employ an assistant before the procedures suggested above are
completed. Bearing in mind the complexities of current employment legislation a Subpostmaster in
such a situation is recommended to offer initially only short term employment pending receipt of
satisfactory references etc.

8. The Subpostmaster must notify the Regional General Manager of his intention to employ a new
Assistant on Post Office Counters Ltd work or when an assistant ceases to be employed in the Sub-
Office.

PERSO NAL DECLARATION

9. Before any person (including a member of the Subpostmaster’s family) is allowed to have access to
mails or to perform, either temporarily or permanently, any Post Office work, he/she must make a

personal declaration on form P13 (GEE SECTION 12, APPENDIX 2))"

The declaration of the Subpostmaster’s Assistants and of any members of his family who perform
Post Office duties should be signed in the Subpostmaster’s presence in circumstances which will help
to fix the occasion and the declaration in the memory of the signatory. The declaration should be
made with proper deliberation and the Subpostmaster should stress its importance and witness the
signature. A signed and witnessed copy of the form should be given to the signatory at the time and
he should be advised to preserve it carefully.

Forms P13 can be obtained from the Regional General Manager as required and must be returned to
him when signed.

SUB-OFFICE ASSISTANTACC USED OR SUSPECTED OF DISHONESTY ETC.

10. In cases where an Assistant is accused or suspected of dishonesty or any other offence such as
wilfully delaying postal packets, the Subpostmaster must report the particulars to the Regional
General Manager as soon as possible and await instructions. If the report is made by telephone it
must be confirmed in writing as a matter of urgency.

11. _Incases where a person employed by the Subpostmaster is guilty of misappropriating Post Office
Counters Ltd money, any sum which may be tendered by, or on behalf of, the offender may be
accepted but a receipt must be given showing that the money is held pending possible investigation.
and without prejudice to any action that Post Office Counters Ltd may be advised to take. The
Subpostmaster should be careful not to take any action which may be liable to prejudice the question
of legal proceedings. A copy of any receipt must be kept for reference.

29
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

UNSUITABLE PERSONS

12. Inorder to help prevent the employment of unsuitable or dishonest persons on Post Office work, a
Subpostmaster must notify the Regional General Manager if he dismisses an employee on these
grounds, or if his enquiries about an applicant for employment give him reason to believe that the
applicant is an unsuitable person. Brief particulars of the evidence should be forwarded to the
Regional General Manager who will decide what steps should be taken to prevent the applicant
obtaining employment elsewhere in the Post Office or at another Sub-Office.

13. Where Post Office Counters Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not be in its best interests for
a particular person to have access to Post Office Counters Ltd cash and stock as a Sub-Office assistant
it may call upon the Subpostmaster to:

(a) refrain from offering that person a post if not already employed;

(b) _ ensure that the person is not further employed on Post Office business if employed.

OUTDOOR POSTAL WORK

14. For any outdoor postal work required, provision is made either by the employment of staff in the
direct employ of the Post Office or by a special allowance to the Subpostmaster for the engagement of
casual labour.

END

30
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 12
DIVULG ENC EOF OFFICIALINFO RMATION, CO RRESPO NDENCE AND INTERVIEWS
DIVULG ENCE OF OFFICEINFORMATION
1. The unauthorised disclosure, or use directly, of any information or document which has come to the

knowledge of a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant through the work of his Sub-Office legislation
or the Official Secrets Act (see paragraph 3).

2. Subpostmasters and their employees must not disclose any information regarding postal packets
passing through the post except to the person(s) to whom such packets are addressed; nor may they
make known information that may come to them officially concerning the character, standing, or
responsibility of individuals or firms, or the private affairs of any person.

PERSO NAL DECLARATION

3. (a) All Subpostmasters on taking up appointment and newly recruited Sub-Office Assistants are
required to sign a Personal Declaration (form P13) which reminds them of the duty of the Post
Office to ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for whom
they are intended promptly and safely, and that the information in them reaches no one not
entitled to it. The Person Declaration also brings to the notice of newly appointed
Subpostmasters and Sub-Office Assistants on taking up employment their obligations under the
Official Secrets Acts and various Post Office and Telegraph Acts. Extracts from these Acts are
reproduced at Appendices 1 and 3. A copy of form P13 is at Appendix 2.

(b) A Subpostmaster on termination of his appointment is required to sign a Declaration (P301) as a
reminder that the provisions of the Official Secrets Acts continue to apply to him after he has
left in respect of all the information which he has acquired or to which he has had access by
virtue of his appointed position as Subpostmaster. A copy of form P301 is at Appendix 3.

(c)  Subpostmasters and Sub-Office Assistants are given a copy of their P13 and Subpostmasters on
termination of their appointment, additionally of form P301 for retention as a reminder of their
importance and of the message they contain. The duty not to disclose information is imposed
by the relevant Acts, not by the Personal Declarations. Consequently no Subpostmaster or Sub-
Office Assistant can avoid these legal obligations by refusing to sign form P13 (also for
Subpostmasters form P301) or attempting to revoke or disclaim his signature on the form(s).

4, Any request made by the Police or any other authority or by a private person for information which
may be confidential, or may concern matters connected with the duties of another Subpostmaster or a
Post Office employee, or with regard to the address of a person who resides, in the neighbourhood
should be referred immediately to the Regional General Manager.

31
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

CONTAC TWITH THE PUBLIC NEWS MEDIA

5.

The Post Office has a duty to safeguard its own interests and those of its employees and Sub-Office
personnel in relation to material which is published in the news media. The Public Relations
Department of the Post Office is primarily responsible for deciding whether the Post Office should
enter into public correspondence and for ensuring fair and accurate presentation of facts about the
Post Office and its services; comment by other persons is undesirable and in particular, untrue, ill-
informed or reckless comment will not be allowed to go unchallenged. While recognising the right of
any individual to comment publicly on matters of general interest therefore, the Post Office expects
Subpostmasters and their employees who wish to comment upon matters affecting the Post Office to
exercise those right in a responsible manner. Subpostmasters must ensure, when communicating
with the press or offering comment which may be broadcast on radio or television, that their
comments do not go beyond the accepted bounds of propriety and are not likely to cause
embarrassment or to mislead the public. The Regional General Manager should be asked to advise in
cases of doubt.

A Subpostmaster wishing to communicate with the public news media should be guided by the
following:

(a) _ there must be no unauthorised disclosure of official information (see paragraph 1);

(b) views and opinions expressed publicly must not bring the Post Office or its employees or any
other Subpostmaster into disrepute;

(c) a Subpostmaster offering unauthorised public comment must make it clear that he is
commenting in his private capacity and not on behalf of the Post Office.

A Senior Representative (as defined in the national agreement on facilities for recognised unions) may
wish from time to time to represent the view of the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters,
particularly on matters affecting his Branch/Committee/Federation. In doing so he must indicate his
position as a Federation spokesman and give his own name.

Particular care is necessary when offering spontaneous comment to press or broadcasting reporters or
interviewers.

PUBLICATION OF OFFICIALINFO RMATION

9.

No Subpostmaster may, without the Regional General Manager’s permission, use information
derived from official records or experience for the purpose of publishing any document, book, play
or article, broadcasting on radio or television, producing or exhibiting a film or photographs, giving a
talk or lecture or taking part in a public discussion.

CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC

10.

A Subpostmaster should not, without the permission of the Regional General Manager, write to or
interview members of the public on Post Office matters other than for the purpose of correcting an
error committed at his own Sub-Office.

32
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

OFFICIALDOCUMENTS AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

11. No Subpostmaster may, without permission, make an official document or a letter from the public, or
any other document which may come into his hands officially, the subject of legal proceedings.

USE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION OR POSITION FOR PRIVATE PURPO SES

12. No Subpostmaster may use his position to further his private interests, or act in any way which might
give rise to the suspicion that he has used, for private purposes, information available to him in his
capacity as Subpostmaster.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

13. A Subpostmaster must report to the Regional General Manager any case in which there appears to
have been a breach of the above rules by anyone employed by him on Post Office duties at the Sub-
Office.

(APPENDICES 1-3 FOLLOW)

33
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 1

SUMMARY OF EXTRACTS FROM ACTS OF PARLIAMENT

POSTOFFICE ACT, 1953

(SEC TION 57) AS AMENDED;

1. IN ENGLAND, WALES AND NORTHERN IRELAND If any person engaged in the business of the
Post Office secretes a postal packet in course of transmission by post, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanour and be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

(The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft Act, 1968 or the
Criminal Damage Act, 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for such offences are liable under the
relevant sections of those Acts to imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years or in some cases
for life.)

2. IN SCOTLAND If any person engaged in the business of the Post Office steals, or for any purpose
whatever embezzles or secretes a postal packet in course of transmission by post, he shall be guilty of
a misdemeanour and be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

(SECTION 58(1))

3. If any person engaged in the business of the Post Office, contrary to his duty, opens, or procures or
suffers to be opened, any postal packet in course of transmission by post, or wilfully detains or
delays, or procures or suffers to be detained or delayed, any such postal packet, he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanour, and be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to a fine, or to
both.

(SEC TION 59)

4. If any person employed to convey or deliver a mail bag, or a postal packet in course of transmission
by post, or to perform any other duty in respect of a mail bag or such a postal packet:

(a) Without authority whilst so employed, or, whilst the mail bag or postal packet is in his custody
or possession, leaves it, or suffers any person, not being the person in charge thereof, to ride in
the place appointed for the person in charge thereof in or upon any vehicle used for the
conveyance thereof or to ride in or upon a vehicle so used and not licensed to carry passengers,
or upon a horse used for the conveyance on horseback thereof;

(b) _ Is guilty of any act of drunkenness whilst so employed;

(©) I guilty of carelessness, negligence or other misconduct whereby the safety of the mail bag or
postal packet is endangered;

(d) I Without authority collects, receives, conveys or delivers a postal packet otherwise than in the
ordinary course of post;

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 1

(e) Gives any false information of an assault or attempt at robbery upon him; or

(f) _ Loiters on the road or passage, or wilfully misspends his time so as to retard the progress or
delay the arrival of a mail bag or postal packet in the course of transmission by post, or does not
use due care and diligence safely to convey a mail bag or postal packet at the due rate of speed;

He shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding fifty pounds (twenty pounds in

Northern Ireland).
(SECTION 87)
5. “Postal packet” means a letter, postcard, newspaper, printed packet, sample packet, or parcel, and

every packet or article transmissible by post, and includes a telegram.

(APPENDICES 2 AND 3 FOLLOW)

35
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 2

PERSONAL DECLARATION (P13)

To be made by all persons on entering employment in the Post Office.

DUTY OF THE
POST OFFICE

NON-DISCLOSURE
OF OFFICIAL
INFORMATION

The first duty of the Post Office is to ensure that letters, parcels, and all
other communications or items entrusted to it reach the people for whom
they are intended promptly and safely, and that the information in them

reaches no one not entitled to it.

To help the Post Office to render this essential service to the community,
the Law makes certain provisions of which the more important are stated
overleaf. It is important for you to know and understand those
provisions, not only for your own sake, but also in order that you should
not, through any fault or omission on your part, enable or tempt others to

break them.

Itis illegal to disclose official information without authority. A person
engaged in Post Office work must not disclose any information which
he/she obtains as a result of that work, unless he/she has written

permission to do so.

You shall neither during you employment with the Post Office nor for a
period of 1 year after that employment ceases, disclose to any other
person, firm, or company, or publish or broadcast or use for your own
benefit any confidential information relating in any way to the activities,
operations or business methods of the Post Office, except as previously

authorised in writing by the Post Office.

YOU SHOULD READ CAREFULLY THIS STATEMENT AND THE ONE OVERLEAF AND THEN

SIGN YOUR NAME TO THE DECLARATION BELOW.

19

In the presence of

Signature

Rank

Note: The person signing this form should sign with his ordinary

signature in the presence of a Supervising Officer. The
Subpostmaster should witness the signature of persons
employed at a Scale Payment Sub-Office.

36
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 2

PERSONAL DECLARATION (P13)

SAFETY OF
POSTAL PACKET

SECRECY

It is an offence to STEAL, SECRETE or DESTROY a letter, parcel
or any other postal packet in course of transmission by post, and
heavy penalties, including terms of imprisonment are provided
for such offences.

Tt is also an offence to OPEN or DELAY (without proper
authority) a letter, parcel or any other postal packet in course of
transmission by post, and penalties of fine or imprisonment are
provided for such offences.

CARELESSNESS, NEGLIGENCE or other mis-conduct which
endangers the safety of a mailbag or postal packet is likewise a
punishable offence.

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is an offence of a
Government contractor (including an employee of a Government
Contractor) to make a damaging disclosure relating to security or
intelligence. A damaging disclosure may relate to defence,
international relations or information received in confidence from
another state or international organisation, or which results or is
likely to result in the commission of offences, or which is of
information which relates to or was obtained by special
investigation powers. It is also an offence for Government
contractors (and their employees) to fail to safeguard or
improperly to retain or provide access to documents or articles
containing information which it would be an offence under the
Act to disclose. A Government contractor means any person or
body who is employed in the provision of goods or services for
the Crown.

When a person transfers from one post to another, he must
surrender all documents connected with the post he is leaving,
except those issued to him for his personal retention. When he
leaves the Post Office all official documents must be given up,
with the exception of those which he has been authorised to
retain.

All the above conditions apply to all persons with access to any
official information, not only while the access continues, but also
after it ceases, and by termination of employment.

Any person who handles information about identifiable living
people which is processed automatically (e.g. on a computer or
word processor) may also commit an offence under the Data
Protection Act, 1984, if he/she improperly obtains, holds or
discloses any such information, of if he/she improperly transfers
it outside the United Kingdom.

(APPENDIX 3 FOLLOWS)

37
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 3

DECLARATION TO BE SIGNED BY ALL PERSONS CEASING TO BE EMPLOYED ON POSTOFFICE WORK,
ALSO BY O THER PERSONS ON CEASING TO HAVEACCESS TO SEC RETINFORMATION.

My attention has been drawn to the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 which is set out on the back
of this document, and I am fully aware that serious consequences may follow any breach of those
provisions.

T understand:

1. that the provisions of the Official Secrets Act 1989 may apply to me after my appointment has ceased;

2, that information which I have acquired owing to my official position may be information which is
covered in Sections 1-8 of the Official Secrets Act 1989.

For a period of one year after my appointment with the Post Office ceases I shall not disclose to any other
person, firm or company, or publish or broadcast or use for my own benefit any confidential information
relating in any way to the activities, operations or business methods of the Post Office, except as previously
authorised in writing by the Post Office.

Thereby declare that I have surrendered any document made or acquired by me owing to my official
position save such as I have written Post Office authority to retain.

Signed Ran

Permanent Home Address (inc. postcode)

Date
Official Address
Signed in The Presence Of
Ran
Surname
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Forename(s)
(BLOCK LETTERS)
Date of Birth Date of Leaving
19
Regd No of Appt Papers Keep Until
38

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 3

THE OFFICIAL SEC RETS ACT 1989

Under the Official Secrets Act 1989, it is an offence of a Government contractor (including an employee of a
Government Contractor) to make a damaging disclosure relating to security or intelligence. A damaging
disclosure may relate to defence, international relations or information received in confidence from another
state or international organisation, or which results or is likely to result in the commission of offences, or
which is of information which relates to or was obtained by special investigation powers. It is also an
offence for Government contractors (and their employees) to fail to safeguard or improperly to retain or
provide access to documents or articles containing information which it would be an offence under the Act
to disclose. A Government contractor means any person or body who is employed in the provision of

goods or services for the Crown.

END

39
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 13

SUBPO STM ASTERS’ PRIVATE BUSINESS AC TIVITIES; BETTING AND GAMBLING; POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

PRIVATE BUSINESS AC TIVITIES

1, The appointment of a Subpostmaster confers on the individual concerned the right to transact, and to
receive payment for, certain items of business of behalf of Post Office Counters Ltd at the premises
specified. The conditions of the appointment also involve such restrictions on the private activities of
the Subpostmaster as are necessary to ensure the continued viability of Post Office Counters
nationwide network.

2. __Itis, therefore, in the interests of all Subpostmasters that Post Office Counters Ltd should be able to
seek, negotiate and manage retail business in the market place without the risk that it will find any
Subpostmaster competing against it for the same business, and accordingly a Subpostmaster must not
undertake in a private capacity any business, or allow anyone else to undertake on the premises in
which a sub-office is situated, business of the kind which Post Office Counters Ltd requires him to
provide for itself or its clients.

3. The current restrictions on private business activities on the premises in which the Sub-Post office is
situated are as follows:

iii.

vii.

collection of payments, or sale of prepayment meter tokens on behalf of any public utility -
water, gas, telephone or electricity company;

collection of payment, on behalf of cable or satellite television companies, collection of revenue
whether by sale of stamps or other means on behalf of local authorities;

sale of “unbooked” travel tickets or passes on behalf of any transport company or local
authority;

sale of National Lottery tickets, or similar nationally a
unable to secure this business because of legal restrain

ible lottery products, unless POCL is.

commercial change giving service;

phone card sales on behalf of BT, Mercury or any future phone card operator with whom POCL
obtains or secks to obtain a contract for the sale of such cards;

business concerned with the provision of services relating to the conveyance of letters, parcels
and other postal packets (“collectively called postal packets” in this paragraph) including
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the sale of stamps, the acceptance of postal
packets for conveyance and delivery and the acceptance of payment for services relating to the
collection, conveyance and delivery of Postal Packets;

40
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

viii. provisions of private box and poste restante facilities;

ix. _ business which is connected with the acceptance or delivery of parcels;
x. collection/delivery or return of undeliverable packets and parcels;

xi. Banking, Building, Provident or Friendly Society business.

The above categories of business constitute the current restrictions but Post Office Counters Ltd
reserves the right to review these restrictions in the light of changing Business requirements, varying
them if necessary. All Subpostmasters will be informed of any such changes.

If an opportunity for new business occurs to a Subpostmaster, or if a Subpostmaster receives any
communication from a third party which amounts, or may amount, to an offer to the Subpostmaster
to undertake the work, which come within the current restrictions specified in paragraph 3 above the
Subpostmaster should not accept such work. Instead he should, at once, inform Post Office Counters
Ltd of the circumstances and seek advice as to whether the work concerned falls within the
restrictions described above.

BETTING AND GAMBLUNG

6.

A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office assistant should not:

(a) bet or gamble by means of post (betting by private telephone off the Post Office part of the
premises is permissible);

(b) _ take part in racing etc. pool or competitions or betting at “fixed odds” on football matches
(there is no objection to participation in ordinary football pool competition).

A Subpostmaster should not on the premises in which the sub-office is situated;
(a) allow or provide for gambling;
(b) conduct any business with a turf commission agency or a football or turf pool agency.

Notwithstanding the conditions of Paragraphs 3 (iv), 6 and 7 above, a Subpostmaster or a Sub-Office
assistant may in a private capacity take part in or act as a promoter of such local lotteries as are
permitted under the Lotteries and Amusements Act 1976 (Northern Ireland in part III of the Betting
and Lotteries Act (Northern Ireland) 1957). The onus of ensuring that the law is complied with rests
with the person concerned in the promotion and conducting of the lottery and the sale of tickets.
Tickets for such lotteries must not be sold over the Sub-Office counter nor must the Post Office be
used in any way for advertising purposes, e.g. in giving addresses at which tickets are available, nor
must advertisements include the words Post Office, Sub-Post Office or Subpostmaster.

UIC EN SED PREMISES

9.

A Sub-Office may not be situated in premises for which an “on” licence allowing for the sale of
drinks, other than a restaurant, has been granted, unless the premises have been clearly divided so
that Post Office customers do not need to go through the licensed premises. There is no objection to
the Subpostmaster holding and “off” licence provided the liquor is sold in closed vessels.

41
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

10. I ASubpostmaster is free to take part in any national and local political activities subject to the
following conditions:-
(a) he must not engage in or allow his assistants to engage in political activities whilst engaged on
Post Office business or on the Sub-Office premises;

(b) he must not exhibit any notice soliciting votes for any particular candidate or with any party or
political object either in the sub-office or on any vehicle under the control of the Post Office; and
no leaflet or address with a party or political object may lie or be exhibited within the sub-office.

11. A Subpostmaster who intends to stand for Parliament must notify the Regional General Manger
accordingly at the earliest opportunity. He must cease to have connection with the running of the
sub-office from the day he is nominated when the office will be placed “in charge”. On receipt of the
notification the Regional General Manger will inform him of arrangements whereby he may name a
deputy to act as Subpostmaster should he be elected. If he is elected he will be able to resume office
when he ceases to be a Member of Parliament, provided he has complied with the arrangements for
naming a deputy and the sub-office has not been closed through normal changes during his absence;
should he fail to comply with these arrangements he will be regarded as having resigned on the day
he is elected. If he is not elected he may resume office after the election result has been declared. A
Subpostmaster who is elected retains the right to resume office after he ceases to be a Member of
Parliament, provided the break in his service does not exceed 5 years.

USE OF THE NAME “POST OFFICE”

12. A Subpostmaster must not use the name “Post Office” in connection with any of his private business

activities or in such a way as to imply that the Post Office is in any way connected with these
activities.

CANVASSING

13. A Subpostmaster must not canvass persons, firms or companies who reside or carry on business at a
place nearer to another Post Office, to transact Post Office business at his Sub-Office. Nor must he
deliver items of Post Office business to customer's premises.

EMPLOYMENT IN THE POST OFFICE OR THE CIVIL SERVICE

14. A Subpostmaster or a Sub-Office Assistant may not be employed in the Post Office if his duties would
bring him into contact with the work of the sub-office.

BORROWING AND LENDING MONEY

15. A Subpostmaster must not borrow from or lend money to any Post Office employee. Nor should he
become security for any Post Office employee in raising a loan. The loaning of money to persons
drawing pensions or allowances on the security of their order books is also strictly forbidden.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

USE OF POST OFFICE EMPLOYEES IN PRIVATE BUSINESS

16. A Subpostmaster must not engage Post Office employees to undertake any work whatsoever
connected with the Subpostmaster’s private business at anytime when they are employed in Post
Office duties.

NOTE: In view of the implications of the Restrictive Trade Practices Act 1976 the agreement of the National Federation
of Sub-Postmasters has not been sought in the terms of this section.
END

43
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

SECTION 14

NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES: APPEALS PROCEDURE,

ALLEGATIONS OF NON-COMPLIANCE OR NON-OBSERVATION OF RULES

1.

Although there may be instances where civil or criminal proceedings are contemplated in which it
would serve no useful purpose to call for a written explanation, in all other instances, and without
prejudice to any subsequent proceedings, any Subpostmaster will be afforded an opportunity of
giving a written explanation of allegations of non-compliance or non-observance of the rules which
are made against him.

At the discretion of the Retail Network Manager which will not normally be withheld, the
Subpostmaster may, if he wishes, meet the Retail Network Manager to discuss the allegations, He
may be accompanied by a friend while doing so. The friend must be aged 18 or over and cannot be
someone involved in the enquiry. The friend must be a Subpostmaster, Sub-Office Assistant or Post
Office employee - and can be the local NFSP representative.

As repeated breaches of the rules, even if minor in themselves, may lead to the determination,
without further warning or appeal, of the contract by means of the giving of three months notice, it is
strongly recommended that Subpostmasters take the opportunity to make such written and verbal
explanations of their actions at the time of the alleged breach of rules. A record will be kept by the
Retail Network Manager of any such discussions and of any written warnings issued to the
Subpostmaster.

REPRESENTATIONS ON POST OFFICE MATTERS

4. Without prejudice to the above a Subpostmaster may address at any time the Regional General
Manager and representation he may wish to make having reference to his duties, remuneration or any
other Post Office matter. The decision of the Regional General Manager as to his response to such
representations is final.

APPEALS

5. If the Subpostmaster wishes to appeal against a decision to summarily terminate his contract for

services, he may do so either in writing or by personal interview and will be allowed ten (10) working,
days from the date of the termination letter to make application,to a member of the Post Office
Counters Ltd “Appeals Authority” whose decision will be final. There is no formal appeal against
three months notice of contract termination or against termination with pay in lieu of notice. Appeals
on all other issues (e.g. recovery of losses caused by the Subpostmasters negligence) are heard by the
Regional General Manager whose decision is final.

APPROACHES TO PERSONS OUTSIDE THE POST OFFICE

6.

Until the Subpostmaster has exercised his final right of appeal, he should not ask persons outside the
Post Office to take up the case on his behalf although this does not prevent a Subpostmaster from
obtaining such advice and support from the NFSP or any other outside person as may help him to
present his case effectively. The Subpostmaster should not detain Post Office papers or allow them
out of his custody for the purpose of such consultation without the permission of the Retail Network
Manager.

END

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246

PoLo0000246
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 15
OFFENCES: SUSPENSION: ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE INVESTIGATION DIVISION
1. Dishonesty is viewed most seriously and any Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant believed to have

carried, or taken part in, an act of dishonesty against Post Office Counters Ltd may be prosecuted.

Furthermore, any Subpostmaster so involved renders himself liable to summary termination of his
contract. The case of an Assistant Post Office Counters Ltd may recommend to the Subpostmaster
that the assistant should no longer remain in his employ on Post Office Counters business.

ARRESTS AND CONVICTION

2. A Subpostmaster must report to his Regional General Manager if he is arrested and refused bail, or if
he is convicted by a Court of any criminal offence (except a traffic offence for which the penalty has
not included imprisonment).

IMMORALITY AND OTHER MATTERS OF PERSONAL CONDUCT

3. It is the aim and practice of Post Office Counters Ltd to maintain, to the maximum extent compatible
with needs of service to the public, an attitude of non-interference in the private lives of
Subpostmasters. However, where facts come to light calculated to cause public scandal or grave
embarrassment to the Post Office in connection with a Subpostmaster’s private conduct, the question
of his fitness for retention in office may have to be considered.

SUSPENSION FROM OFFICE

4. A Subpostmaster may be suspended from office at any time if that course is considered desirable in
the interest of Post Office Counters Ltd in consequence of his:

(a) being arrested, (b) having civil or criminal proceedings brought or made against him,

(©) where irregularities or misconduct at the office(s) where he holds appointment(s) have been established
to the satisfaction of Post Office Counters Ltd, or are admitted, or are suspected and are being
investigated.

5. Where a Subpostmaster is suspended his remuneration in respect of any period of suspension will be
withheld so long as such suspension continues.

6. Onthe termination of the period of suspension whether by termination of contract or reinstatement,
the Subpostmaster’s remuneration in respect of the period may, after consideration of the whole of
the circumstances of the case, be forfeited wholly or in part. If remuneration is paid any rent or other
expenses which may have been paid by him in respect of the continued use of his premises for Post
Office purposes during the period of suspension will be deducted.

CRIMINAL CONDUCT: REPORTING

7. If a Subpostmaster has knowledge or suspicion of dishonesty or other criminal conduct affecting the
Post Office on the part of any person including a Sub-Office Assistant or a Post Office employee he
must, if there is any apparent need for immediate action, at once tell the Regional General Manager
confidentially of his knowledge or suspicion.

45
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

INDUCEMENT TO ACT CONTRARY TO RULES

8. If any person should try to induce a Subpostmaster or a member of his staff to act contrary to the
rules (if, for example, he should be asked to datestamp covers irregularly with a view to either
himself or the offender afterwards enclosing therein betting slips or other communications relating to
the result of some race, game or sport) he should, while avoiding compliance (save in the case
described in paragraph 9) , also avoid putting that person upon his guard by definite refusal) The
Subpostmaster should as soon as possible tell the Regional General Manager what has happened
giving a full report and description of the person so that an immediate report can be made to POID
and instructions sought.

9. A Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who is asked irregularly to put in course of post for
despatch or delivery from his own office a cover already date-stamped, addressed to a betting agent,
and presumably already containing a betting slip or other communication respecting the result of
some race, game or sport, should accept it and with it any bribe offered for compliance. He should at
once initial the cover and hand it and the bribe to the Regional General Manager, to whom he should
report as provided in the last sentence of paragraph 8.

THEFT BY STRANGER

10. I ASubpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant who sees a theft of Post Office Property committed by a
stranger should inform the Police of the facts and then report the matter to his Regional General
Manager as soon as possible.

FAILURE TO REPORT DISHONESTY

11. Inline with any employee of the Post Office a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant is expected to
report immediately any suspicion of dishonesty or criminal intent which may in any way affect the
Post Office, whether the likely offender be connected with the Post Office or not. He is similarly
enjoined to render all possible assistance to officers of the Investigation Division (see below).

ENQUIRIES BY OFFICERS OF THE POST OFFICE INVESTIGATION DIVISION

12. The main job of the Investigation Division is to investigate, or help the Police to investigate, criminal
offences against the Post Office, British Telecommunications and the Department of National Savings.
The Investigation Division does NOT enquire into matters where crime is not suspected.

13. Most of the crimes dealt with by the Investigation Division are committed by outsiders. It follows
that a common reason for Investigation Division officers seeking interviews with persons employed
on Post Office business is to get help in clearing up such offences. Usually the help takes the form of a
witness statement that provides evidence about a particular act or acts that the witness has carried out
in the course of his or her duty.

46
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
14.

15.

POL00000246
POL00000246

Although they comprise the minority of all Investigation Division crime investigations, there are
many cases where the possibility (or even direct suspicion) arises that persons employed on Post
Office business may be involved. Officers of the Investigation Division conduct interviews about
these suspected offences and they are required to observe the same code of conduct when obtaining
evidence as that laid down for Police Officers. This provides for an officer investigating a criminal
offence to question any person, whether suspected or not, from whom he thinks that useful
information may be obtained. As soon as the Investigation Division officer has evidence which
would afford reasonable ground for suspecting that a person has committed an offence, he must
caution him before asking any questions about that offence. The caution must be in terms which
make it clear that the suspected person is not obliged to say anything unless he wishes to do so and
that what he says will be put into writing and given in evidence.

If a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant is questioned as a suspected person by an officer of the
Investigation Division, on statements made by a third person, and expresses a desire to be confronted
by that person, such confrontation will, if practicable, be arranged. At the confrontation, the suspect
will be at liberty to question the third person on his evidence and the questions and replies will be
recorded by the Investigation Division officer.

FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS

16.

17.

18.

Atall interviews between Investigation Division Officers and a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office
Assistant, the interviewing officer will first introduce himself, explain the nature of the enquiry, the
ask the person to be interviewed if he wishes to have a friend present. The introduction and
explanation are necessary first steps so the person to be interviewed knows what is involved when he
makes his free personal choice whether to ask for a friend to be present at the interview or not.

A friend invited to attend an Investigation Division interview must be aged 18 or over and cannot be
someone involved in the inquiry. The friend must be a Subpostmaster, Sub-Office Assistant or Post
Office employee - and can be the local NFSP representative. To avoid unreasonable delay and to
ensure that interviews will not commence until a friend, if requested, is present, the person being
interviewed will be asked to nominate alternative friends if the one first (or subsequently) chosen is
not available or may be involved in the enquiry.

If a person being interviewed declines to have a friend present when asked but changes his mind
later, he may ask for a friend to be called at that stage. If he is not questioned as a suspected person at
the outset (i.e. not under caution), but fresh evidence emerges during the interview which gives
reasonable grounds for suspicion, the Investigation Division officer will make this clear and explain
that he proposes to continue his questions after caution. Before the caution is given the Investigation
Division officer will ask if the presence of a friend is desired during the remainder of the interview.

47
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

19. A friend may only attend and listen to questions and answers. He must not interrupt in any way,
either by word or signal; if he does interrupt he will be required to leave at once and the interview
will proceed without him. Whatever is said at the interview is to be treated as in strictest confidence.
The friend may take notes of the interview but he must keep the notes in the strictest confidence. The
only communication the friend is entitled to make on behalf of the person who has been questioned
will be in the form of a written “in strictest confidence” statement which may be submitted by the
latter, in support of any official appeal which the person questioned may desire to make in connection
with the methods followed at the enquiry. No other communication about the interview is allowed
(unless made by permission of the Post Office) as it might constitute a breach of the Official Secrets
Acts. The questioned officer may, however, if he so desires, communicate the friend’s statement to
the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters in strictest confidence.

SEARCHES

20. Ifa person agrees to his property or house being searched by Investigation Division staff the
Investigation Division officer will ask, before the search is carried out, if he wishes to have a friend
present.

21. Investigation Division officers have no authority to search a Subpostmaster or Sub-Office Assistant or
their homes unless the have first obtained the agreement of the person concerned or they have
obtained a warrant to do so. In practice Investigation Division officers only seek authority or
permission to search when it is deemed absolutely necessary or in the interests of the person involved
(e.g. as a pointer to their innocence). If search by consent is carried out during the course of enquiries
which do not substantiate any suspicion that may have been directed at a Subpostmaster or Sub-
Office Assistant, he will be handed at a later stage a written apology for any inconvenience caused,
coupled with a statement that he readily agreed to the search and that nothing which would cast any
doubt on his honesty was found.

END

48
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 16

INFECTIOUS (INCLUDING CONTAGIOUS) DISEASES.

1. Subpostmasters, are expected to act on the advice given by their general practitioners or hospital
specialists, and to refrain from providing “Personal Service”, by taking leave of absence, through
sickness if advised to do so. This is both for their own good and that of others.

2. Contact with a person suffering from such a disease will only rarely exempt a Subpostmaster from
providing Post Office services, nevertheless the advice in Par. 1 may apply if the medical practitioner
so advises.

3. “Open cases” of Pulmonary tuberculosis must receive clearance from the Post Office, before a
Subpostmaster will be allowed to resume the provision of “Personal Service”.

4. If the local Public Health Department should require the temporary closing of the office, the Regional
General Manager will issue instructions as to the stock, etc. In such cases the question of continuing
payment of the subpostmaster’s emoluments subject to a deduction in respect of any saving in
expenses, will be considered on its merits.

5, These conditions apply equally to any assistants employed by a subpostmaster on Post Office duties.
Also, in such cases the question of meeting any loss sustained by the Subpostmaster or Sub-Office
Assistant in consequence of the latters enforced absence will be considered on its merits. It should,
however, be understood that the object of any payment that may be made by Post Office Counters Ltd
in these cases is to prevent there being any inducement to the sub-office Assistant to come on duty
when his presence would be a source of danger to the public or the Post Office employees with whom
they might come in contact in his Post Office work. Post Office Counter recognises no other
obligation in the matter.

END

49
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

SECTION 17

TELEPHONE FACILITIES

PROVISION OF TELEPHONE FACILITIES

1. The Community Subpostmaster must, in connection with his official Post Office Counters Ltd
business, and in the interests of security, arrange for the provision of telephone facilities at his Sub-
Office. The telephone installation should normally take the form of a direct exchange line, although
exceptionally where the Community Subpostmaster resides on the premises, the Regional General
Manager may authorise, at his discretion, an extension plan installation comprising a portable
telephone and two sockets, one to be installed in the Sub-Office and the other in the Subpostmaster’s
bedroom.

REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATION COSTS

2. Post Office Counters Ltd will reimburse the Community Subpostmaster for costs incurred in the
installation of the required telephone facility, provided that excessive expenditure is not involved.
However, in the event that the Community Subpostmaster decides to have installed a system other
than that required by Post Office Counters Ltd, Post Office Counters Ltd contribution will be no
greater than the cost of installing a direct exchange line. If the Community Subpostmaster is required
to make provision for an extension plan system as described in sub-paragraph 1 hereof, but chooses
to have an extension socket in a room other than his bedroom, Post Office Counters Ltd contribution
to the installation cost will be no greater than would be incurred in respect of the installation of a
direct exchange line.

REIMBURSEMENT OF INSTALLATION CHARGES

3. On production of a paid and receipted quarterly telephone account, Post Office Counters Ltd will
reimburse the Community Subpostmaster the rental charges, including the VAT element, appropriate
to the type of telephone facility that the Regional General Manager has agreed is necessary (see para 1
hereof). Rental charges which exceed the levels so authorised by the Regional General Manager
remain the responsibility of the Community Subpostmaster

CALL UNIT ALLOWANCE

4. Each Community Subpostmaster is given for each telephone account period an allowance of call units
for official purposes, although any part of the allowance not expended in one telephone account
period cannot be carried over to the next. The Community Subpostmaster is required to pay for any
call units in excess of this allowance. The annual allowance is 130 units for a Community Sub-Office
which is within the same local call area as its local controlling Crown Office; 650 units where call from
the Community Sub-Office to the controlling Office are charged at British Telecom charge rate “a”;
and 1820 units where calls from the Community Sub-Office to the controlling office are charged at
British Telecom charge rate “b”.

50
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

EMERGENCY REPAIRS

5, Some British Telecom General Managers are prepared to provide emergency repair facilities for
Subpostmasters. The service allows for attention to faults reported:

(a) Monday - Friday between 1700 and 0800
(b) Saturday up to 0800 and from 1330 hours;
(© allday on Sunday, public and bank holidays.

At other times normal repair facilities apply. Subpostmaster will be billed for use of the emergency
service on the normal quarterly bill and Regional General Managers will reimburse these costs on.
presentation of the bill by the Community Subpostmaster.

REIMBURSEMENT OF VAT CHARGES

6. Post Office Counters Ltd will reimburse the Subpostmaster the charges raised for VAT at the standard
rate, in respect of that part of the total charges related to Post Office services, ic. rental, the free call
allowance and emergency repairs.

END

51
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246

PoL00000246
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 18
QUALITY STANDARDS
1. Post Office Counters Ltd, through its network of post offices, aims to give customers and clients a

high quality service. The Subpostmaster must therefore give high priority to serving customers
quickly and efficiently, and to fulfilling the documentation requirements of clients with accuracy and
professionalism. Also the Subpostmaster will participate in “Putting the Customer First” by attending
the training sessions which form the programme and carrying out the interim activity required
between sessions.

The interim activity consist of commitment to display the Customer Charter in the public area of the
Sub Post Office, and to hand out questionnaires inviting customer feedback. On an ongoing basis
questionnaires will be handed out at regular intervals, to be determined by POCL, but not more than
once every six months. In addition to the issue of questionnaires Subpostmasters, particularly those in
larger offices, will be encouraged to measure customer service as described below. Subpostmaster’s
Sub-Office assistants are also expected to undergo the “Putting the Customer First” programme,
either at sessions led by the Subpostmasters themselves, once they are trained, or the retail network
manager. Subpostmasters should make all reasonable efforts to encourage their staff to participate in
the training,

Payment for attendance at the four “off site” sessions, led by retail network managers, within the
“Putting the Customer First” programme, will be for travel and substitution.

WAITING TIME

2. The Subpostmaster should ensure that the time for which customers wait to be served is kept to the
minimum, and make any adjustments to the staffing pattern accordingly. To help achieve this
objective Subpostmasters in offices displaying the charter, particularly those in larger offices, will be
encouraged to monitor waiting times using the system developed by POCL.

This entails counting the number of customers queuing and the number of clerks serving, three times
a day and to supply the information to POCL to enable the results to be analysed and fed back to the
Subpostmaster.

While POCL has an overall national objective for customers to wait for no longer than five minutes
before being served, it is recognised that customers have different needs and expectations of waiting
time in different offices, and at different times of the day or week. However, Regional General
Managers will treat very seriously any evidence which suggests that the Subpostmaster is not making
all reasonable efforts to ensure that customer waiting time is minimised, to meet the needs of
customers locally.

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

TRANSACTIONS,

3. The Subpostmaster will be responsible for ensuring that transactions are carried out accurately, that
all reasonable steps are taken to prevent fraud and that all documentation is properly completed and
despatched at the due time. Where under the terms of its contracts with its clients Post Office
Counters Ltd incurs financial penalties as a result of the Subpostmaster’s failure in this regard, Post
Office Counters Ltd may pass on this additional cost to the Subpostmaster. The Appendix to this
Section sets out the current maxima of the penalties which can be passed on to the Subpostmaster. In
such circumstances, Post Office Counters Ltd will furnish copies of the appropriate documents as
evidence in support of any action. Failure to properly complete accounting and traffic information
documents may lead to the exclusion in whole or in part of business transacted for the purposes of
determining payment.

4, The Subpostmaster will ensure that customers are treated fairly, courteously and helpfully. Persistent
failure to meet the high standard of service demanded by Post Office Counters Ltd could result in
termination of contract.

QUALITY STANDARDS:
SUBPOSTMASTER ERRORS: MAXIMUM PENALTIES

Maximum Penalty
W.E.F 1.4.93

a British Telecom
Late despatch of BT Bills with due account to cut off times £10
and where this is demonstrably the fault of the (per summary
Subpostmaster. form)

(2) Girobank

2.1 Error notices issued in respect of PDR (G.6301/G.6302) £23.54

transactions, Community Charge (G6403) transactions, (per error notice)

Green/ Violet Girocheques (G6305/7) transactions.

2.2 Cashing other Bank’s Cheques: Fraud Losses
POCL bears in full losses from fraudulently encashed ‘other bank’s cheques’
where these cheques have been accepted incorrectly (e.g. no cheque card number

written on back of cheque). Recompense may be sought towards losses incurred.

(3) DVLA (MVL Offices only)

License issued early £8.50 per licence
Incorrect Licence issued £8.50 per licence
Lost tax dises(where Subpostmaster failed to safeguard The six-monthly
properly) rate of duty for
private and light
goods vehicle

chargeable at the
time of loss.

53
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
(4)

a)
b)
°
d)

Department of National Savings

DNS may seek recompense from POCL for fraud losses,
where error by Subpostmaster had led to payments which
should not have been made. For example:-

Where a stop payment has been ignored.

Where a forged date stamp impression is a bad one.
Where pass book entries have been blatantly altered.
Where the wrong balance figures have been entered.

Again, depending on the circumstances, a contribution can
be sought towards losses incurred.

END

Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved

POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246
POL00000246

SECTION 19

REDEMPTION OF TELEPHONE, TELEVISION, MOTOR VEHICLE AND OTHER SAVINGS STAMPS

1. ASubpostmaster must only accept savings stamps either in total or part payment for the relevant
transaction to which they refer.

2. It is TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE for a Subpostmaster (or anybody acting on his behalf) to:
(i) exchange redeemed savings stamps for cash;

(ii) affix savings stamps to savings cards and claim them as if they had been redeemed by a
customer in the normal course;

(iii) convert total of partial cash or cheque payments for licence or accounts payments into stamps
and claim them as if they had been presented by a customer;

(iv) convert official cash (whether directly from the till or paid in over the counter) into savings
stamps (whether affixed to a card or not) for use as a means of saving for any purpose
whatsoever; or to take action which improperly sets out to increase his remuneration.

3. Redeemed savings stamps must be despatched immediately following completion of the cash account
on which the transaction to which they refer takes place. It is not acceptable to remit redeemed
savings stamps later than the scheduled despatch date or to remit several weeks redemption together.

4. In the event that cases of falsification come to light Post Office Counters Ltd will view such activities
extremely seriously and in such circumstances almost certainly consider termination of the
Subpostmasters Contract for services.

END

55
Issue
September 1994
©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD
SECTION 20 COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTER

MAILWORK

GENERAL

1. This contract is between Post Office Counters Limited (POCL) and the Subpostmaster of
in respect of the

1 provision of sorting facilities, and supervision of Postmen for both delivery and collection of

mails, known hereinafter as Mailwork.

The specifications given at APPENDICES 1-3 of this section explain more fully the

requirements on the Subpostmaster and Royal Mail in the provision of Mailwork.

This Mailwork contract does not affect the Subpostmaster’s obligations and entitlements under

a contract for services with POCL to provide counter services.

ACCOMMODATION AND FITTINGS

2. The Subpostmaster agrees to provide and maintain such accommodation as is required for the
effective discharge of Mailwork duties. In fulfilling this requirement, the Subpostmaster will be
responsible for meeting the provisions of all relevant legislation (in particular HASAW) and

where Post Office staff work on the premises specifically provide:

21 Access to toilet facilities.

22 Facilities for washing, including a supply of hot water
2.3 Hat and coat pegs.

24 Facilities for making tea.

2.5 Adequate lighting

26 Adequate heating, and

27 Adequate ventilation

56

OCopyrgnt ceservedt
POL00000246
POL00000246

Where provision of relevant legislation or requirements introduced by the Post Office after the
appointment of the Subpostmaster call for changes in the accommodation provided by the
Subpostmaster. the Post Office will pay 100". of the costs involved in effecting the required
changes. A proportion of the costs is returnable should the Subpostmaster relinquish his/her

appointment within 4 years of the work being carried out

The Post Office will make available fittings designed specifically for Mailwork use at no cost to
the Subpostmaster. In certain circumstances, Subpostmasters may purchase other surplus

equipment by local arrangement from Royal Mail.

ATTENDANCE

3. The Subpostmaster is not obliged to attend the office personally. Where he decides to absent
himself he must appoint a substitute who shall be sufficiently well versed to carry out the
responsibilities of the Subpostmaster and who is acceptable to the Royal Mail and Post Office
Counters Ltd, However, a Subpostmaster’s responsibility for the proper conduct of Mailwork
duties is in no way diminished by his non-attendance. In either case, the Subpostmaster will

arrange for:

3.1 the correct handling of value and other special items in accordance with regulations

advised from time to time.

3.2 the maintenance of statistical and management information systems as required for
the effective provision of Mailwork in accordance with agreements reached with the

National Federation of Sub-Postmasters (NFSP).

ACCESS TO PREMISES

4. The Subpostmaster will allow access to the area where sorting is performed at all times when
Mailwork is being carried out to any representative of the Post Office for the purpose of
inspection and procedural audit. Visits to the area where sorting is performed outside hours
when it is in use will be by appointment at a time reasonable to both the Post Office and the

Subpostmaster,

57 Issue

November 1995
“Copyright reserved
POL00000246

PoLov000246
POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS
5. The Post Office for its part will provide for
51 Training in all aspects of Mailwork to include not only new entrant training but also

on-going training,

5.2 Royal Mail will make available the conduct code applicable to their employees
working in the Mailwork office and will take appropriate action to ensure the
conduct code is followed in order to support the Subpostmaster.

53 Sufficient levels of operational and administrative support to allow the
Subpostmaster to fulfil his obligations under the terms of his contract

54 The supply of soap and towels and toilet paper.
55 Fire fighting equipment.
CHANGES TO FACILITIES

6. The Post Office will ensure that any changes to facilities or services will be subject to

consultation with NFSP.
REMUNERATION

7. Remuneration for the facilities and services provided by the Subpostmaster will be paid in
accordance with the agreement that may be in force from time to time between the Post Office

and the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters in respect of Mailwork.

WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK

8. Where Mailwork is withdrawn either in whole or in part a payment may be made.

Details of the conditions of such a payment appear at Appendix 4
CHANGES IN CONDITIONS OF SERVICE

9. Any changes in conditions of service and operational instructions, including those which are
agreed with the National Federation of Sub-Postmasters, will be communicated to
Subpostmasters either directly, through “Counter News” or by amendment to Postal

Instructions

(APPENDICES P40 FOLLOAVS

58 Now

OC apyrighe reserved

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPE

ACCOMMODATION SPECIFICATION

Current Health & Satety legislation requires that certain stendards of accommodation are needed at

Mailwork Sub Post Offices. The following schedule outlines these standards by reference to

workplace regulation issued by Health and Sufety Executive under section 16 of the Health and

Safety at Work Act 1974

The determination of whether these standards are achieved at particular offices will be made, if
appropriate via Royal Mail (RM) carrying out risk assessments on accommodation used for
Mailwork. RM will communicate the results of risk assessments via Post Office Counters Ltd (POCL)
to the subpostmaster. Any action required as a consequence of the risk assessment will be agreed
between RM, POCL and the subpostmaster and all parties will use reasonable endeavours to ensure
that any such agreement is not unreasonably withheld

In general terms any action required in respect of general maintenance or what can reasonably be
expected under the following paragraph A will be funded by the sub postmaster. Any action that can
reasonably be attributed to a past change in RM,s requirements or past changes in legislation will be

funded by RM.
Paragraph A

“The subpostmaster agrees to provide and maintain such accommodation as is required for the
effective discharge of Mailwork duties. In fulfilling this requirement, the subpostmaster will be
responsible for meeting the provisions of all relevant legislation (in particular HASAW) and where
Post Office staff work on the premises specifically provide access to a toilet, facilities for washing,
including a supply of hot water, facilities for making tea, adequate lighting, adequate heating and
ventilation, hat and coat pegs.

The following specification represents guidelines. Their applicability in differing circumstances will
depend on a range of factors such as number of staff, duty structures, composition of staff etc. The

intent is to ensure that at the minimum the legislative requirements are met.

59 issue

November 1995
©Copyright reserved
GENERAL
General Health,
Safety & Welfare

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX1

ACCOMODATION SPECIFICATION

Take measures to ensure, 30 far as it is reasonably practicable,the Workplace Reg 4
health, safety and welfare of people who use their premises. These

responsibilities I measures should be intended to protect the health and safety of
everyone in the workplace, and to ensure that adequate welfare
facilities are provided for Royal Mail employees at work as detailed
below.
Display of Display suitably and prominently all relevant statutory Notices
statutory including the Health and Safety law notice and the Health and Safety
Notices. policy Abstract Notice.
WORK AREA
Space androom Every room where persons work should have sufficient floor area, Workplace Reg 10
dimensions height and unoccupied space for purposes of health, safety and welfare.

Maintenance of
workplace and

The workplace and the equipment, devices and systems should be Workplace Reg 5
maintained.in an efficient state, in efficient working order and in good

equipment, repair. Where appropriate a suitable system of maintenance should be
devices and in place. Royal Mail will arrange for the maintenance of equipment
systems devices and systems provided by them. The subpostmaster will arrange
for premises maintenance in accordance with his/her contract.
Workstations Workstations should be suitable for the work and for persons working — Workplace Reg 11

and seating

there. Workstations should include, so far as reasonably practicable,
protection from adverse weather, arrangements for swift exit in an
emergency and arrangements to minimise risks of slipping or falling,
and seating suitable for the operation. Royal Mail will provide the
equipment necessary for its employees to undertake the tasks.

The subpostmaster will ensure that such equipment is used correctly
for the appropriate purposes.

CLEANLINESS

Cleanliness and
waste materials

The workplace and the future furnishings and fittings should be Workplace Reg 9
kept sufficiently clean. Surfaces of the floors, walls and ceilings

inside the building should be capable of being kept sufficiently clear

Workplaces should be kept free of accumulation of waste material,

suitable waste receptacles should be provided.

WELFARE & SANITARY FACILITIES

Toilet facilities

RM staff should have ready access to toilet facilities. Provide Workplace Regs
suitable and sufficient water closets and urinal. Facilities should 20 & 21

be appropriate for men and women. Facilities should be kept clean

and orderly and adequately ventilated and lit

Supply towels or
dryers, toilet
paper, soap

ce Reg 20

Soap and hand cleanser should also be provided for RM staff at all
times,as should toet paper and towels or other hyyenic means of
drying hands

Sanitary towel
disposal

Provide suitable means tor disposal of sanitary towels where toilets

are used by women

60

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX1

Washing facilities Provide suitable and suilicient washing facilities, including clear
hot and coll running water, for Royal Mail Employees. Facilities
should be provided in the immediate vicinity of water closets and
urinals. Facilities should be appropriate for men and women. Facilities
should be kept clear, orderly and adequately ventilated and lit

Drinking water A supply of wholesome drinking water whould be provided and Workplace Reg 22
supply be readily accessible at all times. It should be clearly marked if

appropriate. Clean drinking cups or beakers should be available

unless the supply is from a drinking fountain

Facilities for Facilities for making tea and coffee should be provided and should Workplace Reg 25
making teaand _ be subject to routine safety tests carried out by Royal Mail.
coffee

Eating facilities Provided the mail preparation work area or kitchen is kept ina clean Workplace Reg 25
and hygienic condition, then this should adequately serve as a facility
to eat meals. There should be provision for ensuring food and
beverages are kept in a hygienic environment.

Drying (room) Provide facilities for the employees’ clothing to hang in a clean, dry, Workplace Reg 23
facilities warm, well ventilated place where it can dry out in the course of a

working day if necessary.
Individual hat Accommodation for hanging and storage of employees’ clothing Workplace Reg 23
and coat pegs or — should be provided; at minimum a separate hook or peg for each
lockers worker. (it is desirable that individuals are able to secure their

belongings, so where an employee makes such a request,
space permitting, Royal Mail will provide a 3ft locker)

Safe access Provide arrangements for safe access including swift exit in an emergency.
including,

passageways

Adequate lighting Provide suitable and sufficient lighting. This should be by natural Workplace Reg 8

light so far as is reasonably practicable. Provide emergency lighting
where sudden loss of light would present a serious risk

Adequate Maintain workplace temperatures which provide reasonable comfort. Workplace Reg 7
temperatures Use safe heating systems. Provide a thermometer in the workplace.
Rest facilities Provide suitable and efficient facilities for rest. Workplace Reg 25

Provide suitable protection from discomfort caused by tobacco smoke.
Provide suitable and sufficient facilities to eat meals where they are
eaten regularly in the workplace.

FIRE & SECURITY ARRANGEMENTS

Fire precautions — Provide fire precautions as required by the relevant fire precautions and
regulations. Maintain fire escape minimum standards as defined by Royal Mail.

Fire fighting Maintain as a minimum, one water fire extinguisher
equipment, These extinguishers must be checked annually and
alarm system, arrangements should be made to ensure this happens.

evacuation drills

61 Issue
November 199
“OCopyright reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 2
SUB-POSTMASTER SPECIFICATION

The following specification sets out the key outputs that Sub-postmosters must deliver in respect of

the undertaking of mailwork in sub post offices. It should oe read in conjunction with the Royal Mail

Specification

The phraseology uses the term “output”. This represents the achievement of an outcome for which
the Sub-postmaster is responsible. It does not necessarily mean that the Sub-postmaster has to
personally perform the task to deliver the output. For example, “RM employees briefed in
accordance with employee communication programme: does not necessarily mean that the Sub-
postmaster has to lead formal team briefing sessions. [t will mean that the Sub-postmaster will be
responsible for distributing written briefing, facilitating team briefings lead by the RM line manager,

passing on urgent messages for the line manager to RM employees

There are a number of outputs, particularly in the Customer and Supervision areas, which cannot be

tightly defined and where an element of discretion is needed in determining the level of Sub-
ub-

postmasters involvement. In these cases a test of reasonableness applies. In general term:
postmasters are expected to deal with issues that can easily be resolved on the spot. But there is no

requirement for them to leave the mailwork premises to do so. In all cases where Sub-postmasters are
unable to resolve issues or believe that resolution requires additional capability, such difficulties must

be referred to the RM Line Manager.

The detailed local arrangements as to how each output will be achieved at each office will be set out

in the Local Specification which will be agreed between Royal Mail, POCL and the Subpostmaster.

1 SUPERVISION

-RM employees adequately supervised at all times when on mailwork premises.
(NOTE: RM employees will be deemed to be adequately supervised if all the outputs in this

specification are achieved).

-Contact point provided for RM employees based at the mailwork office at all other times when they

are on duty.

-RM employees attendance checked (ie start and where appropriate finish times) and all unforeseen
absence reported to RM line manager

62 November 1995,
“©Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 2

Staffing failures covered at minimum cost in accordance with contingency plan difficulties referred

to RM line manager.
-Indoor operational problems resolved where possible: difficulties referred to RM line manager
-Pressure overtime authorised and controlled in accordance with guidance from RM line manager.
-Overtime, Scheduled Attendance’s, allowances and Door to Door records certified.

-Reasonable actions taken to ensure RM employees comply with safety and security instructions.
2 CUSTOMER

-Information provided to RM Customer Care when requested (where Sub-postmaster can reasonably

be expected to have access to such information.)

~Customer complaints /enquiries dealt with where resolution is possible at local office level - any

difficulties referred to RM Customer Care or RM line manager.

-Local customer requirements met in accordance with processes set out in local specification.

-Local delivery problems with customers resolved (eg dangerous dogs) where resolution is possible
at local office level and in accordance with processes set out in local specification - any difficulties

referred to RM line manager.

- Positive approach to Customer First activity in the office (but no requirement for personal

attendance for Royal Mail Customer First Activity).
- Positive approach to Royal Mail’s image in the local community
3 OPERATIONAL TASKS
- Mail received and acknowledped

. Signature and value items securely hele and processed in accordance with product
specification
63 issue

November 1995
OCopyrsght reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 2

Redirection instructions, special instructions, retention instructions issued to appropriate RM

employee
Door to Door managed in accordance with product specification and returns made
Response service items processed in accordance with product specification
Second pouch arrangements made in accordance with local specification

Keys securely held, issued and returned

Callers facilities provided (P739, Surcharges, PO Boxes)

Uniforms, stores, forms, equipment ordered and issued

Letter box faults reported to RM fine manager

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION,

Attendance record completed

Work Load Assessment forms, completed by Postmen forwarded in accordance with

operational instructions.

Letter Information Systems and parcel sampling returns completed and forwarded in

accordance with operational instructions

Official Motor Vehicle mileage and fuel returns made

Drivers hours information supplied

Information provided in response to ad hoc requests subject to levels of reasonableness

Basic staff hours records completed

64 Issue
Neveanber 1995
‘oCopyerght reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 2

PERSONNEL

Annual leave selection managed and authorised in accordance with local

specifications

RM conduct code followed by RM employees - any failures by RM employees to meet RM

standards referred to RM line manager
Opportunity for input to sick absence, Non - Culpable Inefficiency, conduct code, welfare
interviews for RM employees; recruitment of permanent and temporary RM employees; trial

reports and appraisals, sick reports and appraisals

RM employee grievances resolved where this is possible at local office level - any serious

grievances referred to RM line manager

RM employee questions answered if within the knowledge of the Sub-postmaster - any

difficulties referred to RM line manager or appropriate support function
Late attendance reports completed

RM employees recognised in accordance with RM policy on recognition
Accident reports completed

RM employees briefed in accordance with employee communication processes as set out in

local specification

RM employee training needs identified and where appropriate referred to RM line manager
RM employees coached and trained in accordance with processes set out in local specification
TRANSPORT

Royal Mail vehicles parked securely in accordance with locally agreed arrangements

intained, fuelled, and cleaned in accordance with local Royal Mail procedures

65

Fleet

November

POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 2
Road Transport Act requirements met (Logbooks. Drivers hours; returns made)
Vehicle accident reports completed

Cycles and delivery aids kept securely and maintained in safe condition in accordance with

locally agreed arrangements
SAFETY

Hazard /safety checks carried out on mailwork premises

Health and Safety notices displayed

Adequate fire precautions - RM employees aware of precautions
Locally agreed disaster plan followed

First aid facilities available for use and maintained

SECURITY

Security of mail and equipment maintained in accordance with locally agreed

arrangements
Security procedures followed as per locally agreed arrangements

Security checks carried out as per locally agreed arrangements

Issue
bad November 1995
Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 3

ROYAL MAIL SPECIFICATION

The following specification represents the key outputs that Royal Mail must deliver to enable the
Subpostmaster to meet the Subpostmaster Specification. It should be read in conjunction with the

Subpostmaster Specification.

The phraseology uses the term “output”. This represents the achievement of an outcome for which
Royal Mail is responsible. Where further definition is required (eg type of sorting fitting, level and
detail of guidance and training) Royal Mail will determine what is necessary to achieve the Delivery
Specification and agree the details in the Local Specifications.

1 SUPERVISION

: Information on RM employees, attendance times and duties provided

- Contingency plan for office provided

- Guidance provided to Subpostmaster and RM employees on completion of Overtime,

Scheduled Attendance, Allowances and Door to Door records
- Local specification (agreed with Subpostmaster and POCL)
- Royal Mail contact point provided to which operational difficulties can be referred
2 CUSTOMER
RM Customer Care contact point provided
- Guidance on meeting changes to customer requirements (unit specification)
- Information on RM Customer First provided

Information on RM Mission and Values provided

Newernder 1996
©Copyright reserved

67

POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 3
OPERATIONAL TASKS
Details of scheduled mail arrivals/tick list provided
Telephoned advice of late arrivals, or other operational changes
Guidelines and training for Subpostmaster and RM employees provided for all RM products
Second pouch arrangements specified
Key security system specified
Instructions provided for the ordering of uniforms, store, forms, equipment
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION
Guidance provided on how Postmen complete Work Load Assessment forms
Guidance provided on completion of Letter Information Systems /parcel sampling returns
Guidance provided on completion of Official Motor Vehicle mileage and fuel returns
Guidance provided on Drivers hours information
Guidance provided on quality checks to be made
‘RM contact point provided for all pieces of management information
PERSONNEL
Resourcing plan provided (annual leave)

Royal Mail conduct code made available and appropriate action taken by Royal Mail to

ensure conduct code is followed

68 Issue
Novernber 1995
‘Copyright reserved
x

POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 3

Opportunity given to Subpostmaster to input relevant information regarding RM employees
in cases of Non - Culpable Inefficiency, welfare, sick absence, trial reports, retention,

appraisals

Opportunity given to Subpostmasters to attend selection interviews for RM employees at the

mailwork office

Opportunity given to Subpostmasters to attend at long service awards /retirement functions
RM contact points provided for all relevant Personnel issues relating to RM employees
Guidance provided:on completion of accident reports

RM recognition policy communicated

Guidance provided on training for RM employees (training plans)

Communications plan for RM employees in mailwork office provided

TRANSPORT

Agreed arrangements specified for secure parking of vehicles

Arrangements for maintainence, fuelling and cleaning of fleet specified

Guidance provided on Road Transport Act requirements

Guidance provided on completion of Vehicle Accident reports
Arrangements for secure keeping and maintainance of cycles and delivery aids specified

SAFETY
Safety instructions provided
Disaster plan specified

First aid training provided to postmen in line with legal Health and Safety requirements

69

November 14
Copyright reserved
POL00000246
POL00000246

APPENDIX 3
SECURITY
Security instructions provided

Security measures specified

FACILITIES

Sorting fittings, stores cupboards/cabinets, soap/towels, toilet paper, fire fighting
equipment, first aid equipment provided

70 este
November 1995
‘Copyright reserved
POL00000246

POL00000246

APPENDIX 4

PAYMENT ON WITHDRAWAL OF MAILWORK

Where the whole or part of either category of Mailwork carried out at a sub-office is withdrawn by
Royal Mail or Royal Mail Parcelforce, the Subpostmaster will receive a lump sum, an amount
equivalent to 1.5 times the consequential annual reduction in pay. The reduction in pay should take

effect from the date of the withdrawal of the work.

Where appropriate, the payment should take account of all regular payments including the effect of
any reduction in the 3% addition paid for minor items of work which attract no specific payment.

Regular and intermittent allowances should also be included in calculating the amount due.

If the withdrawal of Mailwork happens in stages, the Subpostmaster should receive a lump sum in
respect of the reduction on each occasion. In cases where there is simultaneous loss and gain of
Mailwork the lump sum payment should be calculated on any nett loss.

Payments should not be made where the change is due to variations in traffic.

At least three months’ notice, or payment in lieu of three months’ notice will be paid on withdrawal
of Mailwork, except in those cases where the Subpostmaster’s contract is summarily terminated or

where he resigns to avoid summary termination.

Payment for the loss of Mailwork will not be made where work is withdrawn at:-

1. the request of the Subpostmaster;
2 the time of summary termination or resignation to avoid summary termination;
3. a minimum payment office which is already paid for more work than it carries out.

The annual revision date will be unaffected by withdrawal of Mailwork.

END

71

eC opynghs reserved
pens
MAILWORK INDEX COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMASTER

A
ACCOMODATION
MAILWORK 56
ALLOWANCES
MAILWORK WITHDRAWAL 71
ANNUAL REVISION 71
ATTENDANCE
AT SUB-OFFICE 57
Cc
CONTRACT
MAILWORK 56
POST OFFICE OBLIGATIONS 58
TERMINATION 71
COUNTER NEWS 58
M
MAILWORK 56, 57,71
N
NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 58
MAILWORK AGREEMENTS 57
MAILWORK CHANGES. 58
MAILWORK REMUNERATION 58
i?)
PARCELFORCE 71
POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS 58
R
REMUNERATION 58
ROYAL MAIL 71
ROYAL MAIL DISTRICT OFFICE 57
T
TRAINING 58

72

POL00000246
POL00000246
A

ACCOMMODATION
PROVISION OF 1
ALLOWANCE DOCKETS 23
ALLOWANCES,
CASH ALLOWANCE 4
STATUTORY SICK PAY 8
ANNUAL LEAVE 2
ANNUITIES 3
ANNULMENT 16
APPEALS 44
APPEALS AUTHORITY 44
ARREARS OF REMUNERATION 15
ASSISTANTS 28
AGE LIMIT 28
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 28
DISHONESTY 29
DUTIES2
LEGAL OBLIGATIONS 28
LOSSES 24
OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 31
PERSONAL DECLARATION 29, 31
POLITICAL ACTIVITIES 42
PROVISION OF 1
RECRUITMENT 28

CUSTOMER CHARTER 52
CUSTOMER FIRST 52

D

POL00000246
POL00000246

DATESTAMPS 24
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 11
DISHONESTY 46

DIVORCE 16

DUAL EMPLOYMEN 12
DUTIES 3

E

ERROR 24
EVIDENCE OF SICKNESS 11

F

FILLING AND CLEARING OF STAMP-SELLING MACHINES 3
FINANCIAL PENALTIES 53
FORM P13 29, 31

FORM P250 28

SECURITY 23

STATUS 28 FORM P301 31

UNSUITABLE PERSONS 30 FORM P45 14
ATTENDANCE FORM RD950 16

HOURS OF 1 FORM SSP1 11

INVESTIGATION DIVISION INTERVIEWS 47

SUBPOSTMASTERS OBLIGATION 1 FORM SSPI14

TRAINING 52 FRAUD 24

PAYMENT 52 FRIENDS AT INVESTIGATION INTERVIEWS 47
B G
BETTING 41 GAMBLING 41
BURGLARY 24 GIROBANK 3
GOVERNMENT STOCK 3

Cc
CANVASS 42 H
CARELESSNESS 24 HOLIDAY SUBSTITUTION SCHEME 16
CASH AND STOCK 23 HOUSING BENEFIT 8
CERTIFICATE OF AGE CONTRIBUTION 15
CLASSES OF WORK 1

COMMUNITY CHARGE. 3
COMMUNITY SUBPOSTMISTRESS 1
COMPENSATION 2
CONTRACT
CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS 3
DETERMINATION 2
NON-COMPLIANCE WITH RULES 44
NON-OBSERVANCE OF RULES 44
PENALTIES 53
PRIVATE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 40
SHORT CONTRACT WORKERS 9
STATUS 1
STATUTORY SICK PAY 8
TERMINATION
APPEALS AGAINST 44
AS A RESULT OF DISHONESTY 45
AS A RESULT OF FALSIFICATION 55
FORFEITED REMUNERATION 45

GUARANTEED MINIMUM PENSION 17

MISUSE OF POCL CASH 23
CONTRACTING OUT OF SERPS 14
‘CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE PUBLIC 32
COUNTER NEWS 3

CRIMINAL CONDUCT
REPORTING 45

CRIMINAL INTENT 46

Issue

INCOME TAX 8, 14
INVESTIGATION DIVISION 45, 46, 47, 48

L

LEAFLET NI217 14
LEAFLET NI92 17

LEAFLET NP15 15

LEGAL CUSTODY 8, 10

LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 33
LOCAL TAXATION LICENCES 3
LOSSES 24

LOTTERIES 41

September 1994
©Copyright reserved
M

POL00000246
POL00000246

MAILS 3

MAILWORK 1,2, 56-72
MARRIAGE 16
MIMIMUM PAYMENT 4

N

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF SUB-POSTMASTERS 44
ASSISTANCE WITH APPEALS 44
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE 3
INVESTIGATION DIVISION INTERVIEWS 48
OPERATIONAL INSTRUCTIONS 3
PRIVATE BUSINESS 43
SPOKESMEN 32
STATUTORY SICK PAY 9
UNIT CREDITS, CHANGES TO 4

NATIONAL INSURANCE 3,14

NATIONAL LOTTERY 40

NEGLIGENCE 24

NOTIFICATION OF SICKNESS 11

oO

OCCUPATIONAL PENSIONS BOARD 14,
OFFICIAL SECRETS ACT 31
OPERATIONAL RULES 2

OVERSEAS PARCELS 3

P

PAID VOUCHERS 23
PENSION 2
PENSION ALLOWANCES 3

PERIOD OF INCAPACITY &
POID 46
24

E BUSINESS 2

‘AFF SUPERANNUATION SCHEME 14
STOCK 23

POSTAL INSTRUCTIONS 2

"AL ORDERS 3,23

PREGNANCY 10
PREMIUM SAVINGS BONDS 3
PROSECUTION 23

PUBLIC ELATIONS DEPARTMENT 32

R

RE-MARRIAGE 16

REDEEMED SAVINGS STAMPS 55

REDUCED RATE NI CONTRIBUTIONS 15)
REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER 9,14,17,23,29,44
REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER 11

REGIONAL GENERAL MANAGER 24
REHABILITATION OF OFFENDERS ACT 1974 28
REMUNERATION REVISIONS 4

RESTRICTIONS 40

RETAIL NETWORK MANAGER 24,44
RETIREMENT 16

SALE OF POSTAGE STAMPS 3
SAVINGS CERTIFICATES 3

SAVINGS BANK 3

SAVINGS STAMPS 3

SCALE PAYMENT 16

SECURITY 23

SEVERE DISABLEMENT ALLOWANCE 10
SHORT CONTRACT WORKERS 9
SICK ABSENCE SUBSTITUTION 16
SICK LEAVE 2

SICKNESS BENEFIT 8

SOCIAL RITY 8

SOCIAL SECURITY ACT 1975 14
"ANDING FOR PARLIAMENT 42
STATE PENSION AGE 9
STATUTORY SICK PAY 8
SUB-OFFICE CASH AND STOCK 23
SUBPOSTMASTER’S STATUS 8
SUBPOSTMISTRESS 10
SUBSTITUION 52

SURPLUSES 24

SUSPENSION 16,45

T

TELEPHONE ACCOUNTS 3
TELEVISION LICENCES 3

THE REMUNERATION 4

THEFT 24,46

TRADE DISPUTE 10

TREATMENT OF POSTAL PACKETS 3

U

UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFIT 10
USE OF POST OFFICE NAME 42

Vv

VACANCY NOTICE 2
VOUCHERS FOR PAYMENTS 23

Ww.

WAITING TIMES 52

WIDOW'S BENEFIT 15
WIDOWHOOD 16
WITHDRAWAL OF SERVICES 2

September 1994
ii ©Copyright reserved
