Claim No. CR101947

IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT

BETWEEN:

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED
-and-

MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

TRIAL BUNDLE
‘B’
WITNESS STATEMENT AND
JOINT EXPERT’S REPORT

Tab Description Date
Claimant’s Witness Statements

1. Keith Baines 14.10.03
2. Elaine Mary Tagg 16.10.03
3. Rebecca Ursula Robinson 17.10.03
Defendant’s Witness Statements

4. Ann Simpson 06.11.03
5. Raymond Knight 07.11.03
6. Edith Margaret Jackson 08.11.03
Te Mark Anthony Jackson 08.11.03
8. Julie Wolstenholme 10.11.03
9. Roger John Harrison 12.11.03
Joint Expert’s Report

10. Expert Opinion of Jason Coyne of Best 20.01.04

Practice Group Pic

Claimant

Defendant

Page

113-114
115 - 321

322 - 352

353
354
355 - 356
357 - 358
359 - 363

364

365 - 368

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

Claimant
K Baines
First
Exhibits
Dated :

CLAIM NO CR101947
IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT

BETWEEN
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

Claimant
AND

MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

Defendant

WITNESS STATEMENT OF KEITH BAINES

I, KEITH BAINES of Calthorpe House, 15 — 20 Phoenix Place, London, WC1X ODG STATE
AS FOLLOWS:

1 I am employed by Post Office Limited, formerly Post Office Counters Limited (“the
Post Office”) as Contract Manager with responsibility for contracts with Fujitsu
Services. As the Contract Manager, I am responsible for provision of the Horizon
computer system in directly managed branches run by the Post Office and in Sub-
Post Offices run by Subpostmasters under contract to the Post Office.

2 The facts and matters deposed to in this statement are within my own knowledge
unless I say otherwise. In so far as they are within my own knowledge, they are true.
In so far as they are derived from information provided to me by others, they are true
to the best of my knowledge and belief.

3 The computer system provided by the Post Office for use in branch offices and Sub-
Post Offices is called the Horizon System. Fujitsu Services Limited, formerly ICL
Pathway Limited own the actual equipment and the Post Office buys the service from
them which includes the infrastructure and requests to extract audit data. Before

13
POL00118219

POL00118219

January 2003, the Post Office was allowed 50 audit extraction requests per year
within the fixed price of the service and, subject to capacity limits of Fujitsu Services
systems and processes, could purchase others at additional cost. The system would
have been fully checked before being issued to the Cleveleys Sub-Post Office.

Every branch office and Sub-Post Office has the same type of computer equipment

and system, subject to variations relating to the number of counter positions in the
office.

Any faults that occurred in the Horizon computer system were eliminated once they
were identified. Whilst it is possible for mistakes to occur, this is usually through
incorrect inputting to the computer system in the office affected by the mistake. All
sub-postmasters were fully trained in the use of the Horizon equipment. The system
was fully tested before it was used by the Post Office and it is fit for its purpose. The
system itself does not create losses as is claimed by Mrs Wolstenholme.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts state:

Signed

Dated :

this witness statement are true.

\4 [00 [200%

uy
POL00118219
POL00118219

Claimant
EM Tagg
First
Exhibits “EMT1”
Dated : 16 October 2003

CLAIM NO CR101947
IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT
BETWEEN
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED
Claimant
AND
MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

Defendant

WITNESS STATEMENT OF ELAINE MARY TAGG

1, ELAINE MARY TAGG of Area Intervention Office, 27 Hargreaves Street, Burnley, BB11
1DU STATE AS FOLLOWS:

1 I am employed by Post Office Limited, formerly Post Office Counters Limited (“the
Post Office”) as a Retail Line Manager. My title was previously Retail Network
Manager and whilst the position did not change, the name of the title changed to
Retail Line Manager. I have been employed by the Post Office since June 1980. :

2 The facts and matters deposed to in this statement are within my own knowledge
unless I say so. In so far as they are within my own knowledge, they are true. In so far
as they are derived from information provided to me by others, they are true to the
best of my knowledge and belief. There is now produced and shown to me an exhibit
marked “EMT1” exhibiting copy documents to which I shall refer in this statement.

WS '
My responsibilities include the monitoring of the overall performance of sub
postmasters against their contracts and business standards which are laid down by
the Post Office. I also monitor their yearly sales and financial performance together

with any gains or losses. I am responsible for a total of 112 post offices throughout
the North West area of England.

I first met the Defendant, Julie Wolstenholme (“Mrs Wolstenholme”), through her
father, Mr Jackson as Mr Jackson was formerly the sub postmaster at Cleveleys
Modified Sub-Post Office. Mrs Wolstenholme worked for her father for a period whilst
he was the sub postmaster at Cleveleys Post Office.

In 1999, I became aware that Mr Jackson was

ind that he had been trying to sell
his post office. During my discussions with him regarding the possible sale, we
discussed the possibility of a family transfer being made to Mrs Wolstenholme. In or
about September 1999, I met with Mrs Wolstenholme, Mr & Mrs Jackson and Mrs
Wolstenholme’s former partner, Roger Harrison at the flat above the post office

premises where we had a general chat about the possible family transfer of the post
office to Mrs Wolstenholme.

Following the meeting, I received a letter from Mr Jackson dated 21 September 1999
(page 1 of “EMT1”) resigning from the post of sub postmaster at Cleveleys Modified
Sub-Post Office and requesting that the Office be transferred to Mrs Wolstenholme. A
letter was then sent to Mrs Wolstenholme on 12 October 1999 enclosing an official
application form for her to complete. Copies of that letter dated 12 October 1999 and
the completed Application form are at pages 2-12 of “EMT1”. In view of the fact that
the transfer was a family transfer, I did not need to have sight of a business plan nor
was there a formal interview which was again due to the fact that it was a family

transfer and also because Mrs Wolstenholme had worked at the post office. Usually.

on the sale of a post office, a fee of 25% of the remuneration attached to the office
which was known as a licence fee is payable to the Post Office. I made internal
enquiries within the Post Office to see whether a family transfer could take place at a
modified sub-post office and if so, whether the 25% fee was payable. I received an e-
mail from Kim Sharp at the Post Office on 12 October 1999 (page 13 of “EMT1”)
confirming that the family transfer could take place and that no fee was due.

I have read the unsigned statement of Mrs Wolstenholme (pages 14-18 of “EMT1”)
which formed part of her disclosed documents in which she states in paragraph 3 that

\\lo °

POL00118219
POL00118219
10.

11.

POL00118219

POL00118219

she purchased the business and premises for £150,000. The business was being
transferred as opposed to being sold and as far as the Post Office was concerned, no
licence fee was due and it was not aware of any payment being made by Mrs
Wolstenholme to her father. I have in any event seen no evidence of the purchase

price nor of the loan obtained from Yorkshire Bank and the loan from Mrs
Wolstenholme’s parents.

Whilst there was no formal interview and whilst there was no requirement to do so
due to the fact that it was a family transfer, I did complete a Report on Candidates for
Sub-postmastership (pages 19-23 of “EMT1”). The Report indicates that Mrs
Wolstenholme had provided detailed plans — both financial and operational. As the

transfer was a family transfer, as well as not requiring a detailed business plan the
Post Office did not require evidence of funding.

On 9 November 2003, the Post Office wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme confirming that her
application for the Sub Postmastership of Cleveleys Post Office had been successful.
A copy of that letter is at page 24-27 of “EMT1. Mrs Wolstenholme entered into a

modified Sub Postmasters’ Contract with the Post Office and the transfer was
completed on 19 November 1999.

In the early part of 2000, the Post Office installed the Horizon computer equipment at
its post offices and sub-post offices. The installation at Mrs Wolstenholme’s post
office was completed on or about 9 February 2000. The original installation had been
aborted on the day of installation due to problems with the ISDN line. The Horizon
Field Support Officers were on site throughout the installation to check that everything
was running smoothly and to assist the staff at the post office. It should be noted that
Mrs Wolstenholme and her staff had received training as had all other postmasters
and sub postmasters and their staff on the Horizon system. Further, the Report on
Candidates for Sub Postmastership in relation to Julie Wolstenholme indicates that
she had shown a great enthusiasm for the Horizon system

Following the installation of the Horizon system, postmasters sub postmasters and
their staff had two help lines which they could call in the event of any problems. One
was the Horizon System Help Desk which dealt with technical problems encountered
with for example the system crashing or in relation to the hardware or software. The
other help line was the Network Business Support Centre which was run by the Post
Office which dealt with the general use and working of the system.

\\t

wo
12.

13.

14.

Mrs Wolstenholme persisted in telephoning the Horizon System Help Desk in relation
to any problems which she had with the system and generally, these problems related
to the use and general operation of the system and were not technical problems
relating to the system. Copies of the call logs for the period 10 January 2000 to 30
November 2000 together with a brief analysis of the calls to the Horizon system Help
Desk which I prepared following Mrs Wolstenholme’s suspension are at the pages 28-
112 of “EMT1”. Whilst there were some problems at other branches, they were not

insurmountable and were often due to the system crashing or were general teething
problems.

I understand that in March 2000, Mrs Wolstenholme made a complaint in relation to
the problems which she had been encountering with the system to the Network
Business Support Centre. A copy of the letter from the Network Business Support
Centre dated 31 March 2000 to Mrs Wolstenholme acknowledging that her complaint
had been logged is at page 113 of “EMT1”. The Post Office subsequently wrote to
Mrs Wolstenholme on 28 April 2000 (page 114 of “EMT1”) from which it is clear that
investigations had been carried out in relation to the problems experienced by Mrs
Wolstenholme. Further, an investigation had been carried out which had concluded
that there were no problems with the line. Network Support felt that the problem lay
with the counter and was therefore transactional. ICL Pathway were aware that the
terminals had been swapped on a number of occasions and felt that there must be
another underlying reason. Claudia Walker (ICL Liaison) and I visited the office in or
around week 8 in May 2000. Whilst some problems with the ISDN line were identified
and resolved, both Claudia and I were of the opinion that despite initial problems,
misuse of the system was to blame for most of the errors. As at week 7, it was
accepted by all parties that the system was operating as it should. Mrs Wolstenholme

and her partner, Mr Harrison, made no_representations that they. were still. unhappy.
with the system.

In paragraph 15 of her unsigned statement Mrs Wolstenholme claims that I stated
that I had not experienced another office where the computers were so slow and that
I sent her a card and a plant to apologise for the problems she was having. I would
wish to point out that in stating that there was no other office where the computers
were running slow, I was not accepting that Mrs Wolstenholme’s computers were
running slowly, I was merely responding that I was surprised if this was the case
because it was not the case in other offices. The card and plant were sent to Mrs

1

POL00118219
POL00118219
15.

16.

17.

POL00118219

POL00118219

Wolstenholme at the request of my Manager, Tony Biolchi, Head of Retail Network at
the Post Office in March/April 2000 as it was accepted by the Post Office that the
computer system crashing in the early weeks had caused inconvenience.

From an early stage, Mrs Wolstenholme was holding losses in that there would be
shortages in her office’s cash account. In these circumstances, the shortage would
be reported to the Post Office and the sub postmaster may then be given authority to
hold the loss in the account and then repay the loss by way of a reduction from the
remuneration. A form of authority would be issued by the Post Office providing
authority to carry a cash account shortage. Alternatively, if the discrepancy was
purely a mathematical error, an error notice would be raised by the Post Office and
sent to the Sub-postmaster for clearance. In the first six weeks of Mrs
Wolstenholme’s appointment and prior to the installation of the Horizon equipment,
the office had an average balancing record. Following the installation of the Horizon
computer system a period of adjustment time was allowed and in any event the
shortages at Mrs Wolstenholme’s post office were not excessive up to June 2000 for
an office of that size. In April 2000 all offices were sent a letter stating that the Post
Office must be notified of any losses over £200.

An audit was carried out of Cleveleys Sub-Post Office on 1 June 2000 and the results
of that audit are at pages 115-117 of “EMT1”. It can be seen that the report states
that there were good controls in relation to the Horizon system and I should explain
as is set out in the pages attached to the report that “good controls” means that all of
the users are logged on, each having their own password and user ID and that all
regulations regarding the maintenance and protection of the system are followed
correctly and the sub postmaster is aware of contact point and procedures in case of
system failure or breakdown. The purpose of the audit was not to assess the

competent use of the system but instead to check the matters which I have outlined
above.

On 21 June 2000, I wrote to Mrs Wolstenhome stating that it was now some ten
weeks since the Horizon system was deemed to be fully operational and stating that
there was currently a loss being held in her account in the sum of £2,497.94 and
requesting that arrangements be made to repay the loss. A copy of my letter is at
page 118 of “EMT1”. Mrs Wolstenholme responded by letter dated 9 July 2000
blaming the shortages on the problems which she claimed to be having with the
Horizon system. A copy of that letter is at page 119 of “EMT1”. It was usually on

WA °
18.

19.

20.

occasions where I was pressing for the repayment of losses that Mrs Wolstenholme
then sought to blame the shortfall on the Horizon system. The Post Office was not
experiencing any problems of this nature with the other sub-post offices and as I have
stated above, whilst there were some problems at other offices, they were mainly
teething problems or involved the system crashing and were not ongoing to the extent
of the problems which Mrs Wolstenholme was experiencing. I was very much of the
view as is evidenced by the call logs that the problems which she was experiencing
were largely due to the misuse and operation of the system and apart from the times
when the system crashed, were not usually the fault of the system.

During discussions with Mrs Wolstenholme, she claimed that the system could not
cope with a Post Office which was as large as hers. This was not the case as there
were larger offices in which the Horizon computer system was working well. The
situation regarding the losses worsened as whilst losses were being incurred, no
error notices were being processed and the authorised cash shortages were not
being made good. Copies of various forms of authority to carry a cash account
shortage in relation to Mrs Wolstenholme’s post office are at pages 120-129 of

“EMT1”. Furthermore, Mrs Wolstenholme was failing to report the shortages and
misbalances.

I attended Mrs Wolstenholme's post office regularly and usually on a weekly basis to
assist in any way I could and because I was concerned about the losses which were
being incurred without reason or justification and the failure on the part of Mrs
Wolstenholme to repay such losses. In the circumstances where a problem is
suspected, the sub postmaster is encouraged to print off the receipt at the time they
consider a problem has arose. This would then enable the Post Office to see what
has happened. Notwithstanding suggestions and requests being made to Mrs
Wolstenholme to print off receipts, she never provided me with any.

I note that in the second paragraph of her subsequent witness statement served on
the Post Office in August 2003 that Mrs Wolstenholme claims she has not received
the necessary support from the Post Office. This is incorrect. As I have stated
above, I regularly visited her office, and this is confirmed later in the statement when
she states that I came to her office most Thursday mornings. Support was offered in
various letters and she was given procedures to utilise to attempt to deal with and
rectify her problems which she continued to use. I made several visits to the office
after June 2000 which were particularly to check the accounting position as I was

1ad °

POL00118219
POL00118219
21.

22.

23.

POL00118219

POL00118219

becoming increasingly concerned about the number of error notices being received
but with no corresponding surpluses being shown in the accounts relating to them.

The accounting record of the office was discussed in detail with both Mrs
Wolstenholme and Mr Harrison at each visit.

A copy of a document entitled “Problem Updates Entered Between Date Error and
Date Error” is at pages 130-144 of “EMT1”. This document was prepared by Paula
Astles of the Post Office and details the various steps and actions undertaken by the
Post Office to try and solve the reason for the shortages and losses on Mrs
Wolstenholme’s account. There is an entry on 4 October 2000 which records that I
spent 5 hours that day at the office trying to sort the problem out. It can also be seen
from the document as is confirmed by all other enquiries and investigations
undertaken by Horizon and the Post Office that the problems experienced by Mrs
Wolstenholme were not due to inadequacies of the Horizon system but due to errors
on the part of Mrs Wolstenhome and her staff when using the system.

On 1 November 2000, I received a call from Mrs Wolstenholme during which she
informed me that the Horizon system had crashed and that she was unable to roll two
stock units, namely those of herself and Mr Harrison, into the next cash account
period. On 2 November 2000, I attended Cleveleys Sub-Post Office and met with Mrs
Wolstenholme. My colleague, Carol Hargreaves, another Retail Line Manager, was
also in attendance. We found the system to be operational but accepted there had
been some problems following the upgrade, none of which would have prevented
rollover. Mrs Wolstenholme was reluctant to open the office as she felt that the
Horizon system was malfunctioning. Mr Harrison indicated that he may turn off the
system as he had no faith in it. I warned him at that time that Mrs Wolstenholme
would be in breach of contract to do this and would be suspended. Carol and I
checked the cash and stock which was correct and the office opened at 2pm. During.

my visit, I discussed with Mrs Wolstenholme the position regarding the losses on her
account.

Following the meeting, I wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme on 3 November 2000 setting out
the position in some detail and attaching a detailed breakdown of the current losses
on the account. A copy of my letter is at pages 145-149 of “EMT1”. Once again
repayment of the losses was sought and I also advised that Mrs Wolstenholme
implemented immediately the checking procedures which we had discussed during
my visits to the post office. These checking procedures included the manual

lal ‘
24.

25.

recording of data which it was felt had been miscalculated by the Horizon system and
the recording of all error notices received. This was intended to assist Mrs
Wolstenholme to try and find out where the losses were coming from. Whilst I had

suggested these procedures during earlier visits, they had never been implemented
by Mrs Wolstenholme.

Mrs Wolstenholme responded to my letter by letter dated 10 November 2000 (page
150 of “EMT1”) claiming the Horizon system had not been operating correctly and
that she believed that she could not be held responsible for the losses. I responded
by letter dated 20 November 2000 (pages 150-152 of “EMT1”) and I set out in some
detail in that letter the history of the matter. 1 addressed Mrs Wolstenholme’s
concern that the Horizon system was not working properly but stated that the
indications from the Engineers were that the system was operating properly and “no
malfunctions, other than those currently being experienced by other offices due to the
upgrade and which do not affect the office balance, have so far been found”. I further
made reference to the full “health check” which had been carried out on the system in
week 4, 13 April 2000. I went on to state that between week 4 and week 15, 5 July
2000, Mrs Wolstenholme’s balancing was as expected for an office of this size and
that as I had received no communication from Mrs Wolstenholme, I assumed that she
had accepted the findings. In my letter, I also referred to a visit to Cleveleys post
office with Carol Hargreaves on 15 November 2000 to undertake operational checks
from which it appeared that there were no checking procedures in place and I pointed
out that had even a cursory check been made of the office balance then the majority
of the errors would have been discovered prior to the production of the cash account.
I stated that unless proof could be provided that the Horizon system was responsible
for the losses, then the losses would have to be repaid in accordance with my
previous letter of 3 November 2000. Carol Hargreaves and I had visited the office
again on 15 November 2000, during the balancing time to observe the office's
operational procedures. Following the visit I asked Carol to prepare a report detailing

this visit and the previous visit on 2 November 2000, a copy of which is at pages 153-
155 of “EMT1”.

Mrs Wolstenholme responded to my letter by letter dated 20 November 2000 by letter
dated 29 November 2000 (page 156 of “EMT1”) in which she stated that she had no
intention of repaying the losses. I should state at this stage that in or about July 2000,
due to the increased losses, the staff at Cleveleys Post Office were balancing using
individual stock units to try and determine from where the losses were being incurred

laa

POL00118219
POL00118219
26.

27.

POL00118219

POL00118219

and it appeared that of the ten stock balances, the problem usually lay with those of

Mrs Wolstenholme and Roger Harrison and the stock balances of the other staff
usually balanced.

On 30 November 2000, I received a call from the Post Office Helpline to say that
Cleveleys Sub-post office had not rolled the office and that again only Mrs
Wolstenholme’s and Mr Harrison's stock had been affected. I was also informed that
the Sub-postmaster had reported a “large shortage” and was refusing to roll the office
over until the “problems” were sorted out. I telephoned the office and told Mr Harrison
to open the office with the 8 stocks which had been rolled correctly. He stated that the
office was already open but that they were working manually and would not be using
the Horizon system until it had been “sorted out”. He indicated that he had been told
by the Horizon Helpline that the office had major software problems. I should state
that it would not be possible to balance or roll 8 out of 10 stocks if there were major
software problems. I repeated my warning that if Mrs Wolstenholme continued to use
the manual system and did not use the Horizon system I would have to suspend her.
Mr Harrison’s reply was “ok then”. I attended the office that day with Carol
Hargreaves and I asked Mrs Wolstenholme to confirm that she was no longer willing
to operate the Horizon system. She indicated that she would not use the system and I
therefore delivered a letter of suspension to her at 9.45am (page 157 of “EMT1”) as a
result of her refusal to use the Horizon system and another letter of same date (page
158 of “EMT1”) inviting her to attend an interview on Friday 8 December 2000 as a
result of her failure to deal with how she intended to repay the losses held in her
account and her suspension resulting from her failure to use the Horizon system.

In paragraph 8 of her unsigned statement, Mrs Wolstenholme claims that I demanded
the keys to the premises. This is not correct as I was well aware that the Post Office
had no right to the keys to the premises. I did however properly demand the keys to
the safes. I was however given the back door key for the purposes of access only in
the event of no-one being on site. She further states that I did not give her the reason
for her suspension but I should point out that contractually I was able to suspend her
without giving reasons. Notwithstanding this and in any event, I had informed Mrs
Wolstenholme both previously and on 30 November 2000 that if she did not use the

Horizon system she would be in breach of her contract and that she would be
suspended.

laa
28.

29.

30.

I returned to Cleveleys Post Office later that day with another Retail Network Manager
and four auditors to check all of the stock and carry out a final audit. As Mrs
Wolstenholme’s and Roger Harrison’s stock balances had not balanced from the
previous day, we had to balance the stock from Wednesday 29 November 2000 for
them both and roll the whole office over, then input all of the transactions for that day,
Thursday 30 November 2000 and then rebalance. Whilst we were undertaking this
exercise we did not encounter any problems with the Horizon system. Of the ten
stocks, eight balanced and the two which did not balance were those of Mrs
Wolstenholme and Roger Harrison. This exercise and the final audit was completed
the following day and I then returned on the following Monday to wait for Securicor
who were collecting the cash and stock from the office. In paragraph 8 of her
unsigned statement, Mrs Wolstenholme states that she was never informed of the
result of the audit. I should state that as she was suspended and her contract was
subsequently terminated, the Post Office was under no obligation to inform Mrs
Wolstenholme of the result as the cash and stock were no longer under her control.

I subsequently wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme on 5 December 2000 (pages 159-160 of
“EMT1”) setting out the grounds upon which I was considering the termination of her
contract. The letter indicates that Mrs Wolstenholme was now being given an
opportunity to answer the charges and put forward reasons why the contract should
not be terminated either by written representations or requesting an interview. The
interview arranged for Friday 8 December 2000 was therefore cancelled.

I understand that Mrs Wolstenholme subsequently forwarded some papers relating to
her suspension to Dave Miller, Managing Director, Post Office Network as he then
wrote to her on 15 December 2000. A copy of that letter is at page 161 of “EMT1”.
On 20 December 2000, Mrs Wolstenholme wrote to my Manager, Tony Biolchi and
also to myself. Copies of her letters are at pages 162-165 of “EMT1”. The letter to
Tony Biolchi relates primarily to the efforts which were being made on the part of the
Post Office to retain Post Office services from Mrs Wolstenholme’s premises. The
modified Sub Postmasters’ Contract provides that on suspension, the Post Office may
require the Sub Postmaster “to make his premises available for the continued
provision of Post Office Services”. I had spoken to Mrs Wolstenholme on 18
December 2000 regarding access to the premises confirming that Mr Asif Patel had
been authorised as temporary Sub Postmaster at the office from 28 December 2000.
I had also written to Mrs Wolstenholme on 18 December 2000 setting out the position,
namely that the Post Office would remain closed until a legal agreement had been

lau °

POL00118219
POL00118219
31.

32.

POL00118219

POL00118219

feached between Mrs Wolstenholme and Mr Patel. Copies of my letters dated 18
December 2000 are at pages 166-167 of “EMT1”.

In paragraph 9 of her unsigned statement Mrs Wolstenholme states that she was first
contacted by Mr Patel on 8 December 2000 when he informed her that he had been
appointed as the temporary Sub Postmaster, yet she states in her letter to Tony
Biolchi of 20 December 2000 that she was only informed of this on 18 December
2000. Following Mrs Wolstenholme’s suspension I had hoped that Cleveleys Post
Office may be able to re-open later the following week. I approached Mr Patel on 4
December 2000 as he had a small post office nearby to see if he could assist. He
indicated that his staff could run his post office and he would then be able to run
Cleveleys Post Office with the existing staff. I informed him that terms would have to
be agreed with Mrs Wolstenholme and that a lease would have to be drawn up which
would have to be approved by the Post Office. Mr Patel indicated that he was willing
to accept the post but that he required financial details, for example how much rent
the suspended Sub Postmaster required. I attempted to. contact Mrs Wolstenholme
and was informed by her mother, Mrs Jackson, that she and Mr Harrison were in
London and were not available to discuss the matter. I later discovered that Mrs
Wolstenholme and Mr Harrison had gone to France for a few days. I left a message
with Mrs Jackson for Mrs Wolstenholme to contact me as soon as possible. She
indicated that Mrs Wolstenholme would not be willing to accept a low rent for the
Office as she had “loans to cover’. I attempted each day to contact Mrs Wolstenholme
or Mr Harrison and I finally managed to speak to Mr Harrison on the Thursday 7
December 2000. He promised that he would let me know that day what rent Mrs
Wolstenholme would be expecting to charge. I telephoned again on Friday 8
December 2000 and Mrs Wolstenholme informed me that she would only discuss the

matter of rent with the temporary Sub Postmaster. I therefore arranged for Mr Patel to
visit the office on Friday 8 December 2000.

Unfortunately, Mrs Wolstenholme was unable to agree terms with Mr Patel. Firstly,
there was a problem regarding access in that Mrs Wolstenholme wanted to let Mr
Patel into the premises and then lock up after him and was unwilling to allow him to
have a key. This was wholly impractical, unworkable and unreasonable. Secondly,
Mrs Wolstenholme was seeking to charge an excessive rent to Mr Patel and
therefore, financially, it would not have been worth Mr Patel taking the temporary
post. Mr Patel informed me that Mrs Wolstenholme had stated that the Post Office
could pay “over-scale rent” and that “over-scale rent” had been paid in post offices in

las "
33.

34.

35.

36.

Manchester and Liverpool which had worked. This was not correct as the Post Office
not willing to pay “over-scale” payments. In paragraph 10 of her unsigned statement
Mrs Wolstenholme states that after I advised her that the usual rent payable by a
temporary Sub Postmaster was 10% of her salary she obtained advice from a firm of
surveyors who stated that the proper commercial rent should be £300.00 per week.
This was excessive and it would not have been possible for Mr Patel to operate at a
profit from the premises in the event that he was paying this level of rent. In
paragraph 11 of the unsigned statement, Mrs Wolstenholme makes reference to the
Post Office assisting Mr Patel with funding which is incorrect.

As regards Mrs Wolstenholme’s letter to myself dated 20 December 2000, she
purported to deal with my letter dated 5 December 2000. Unfortunately, she failed to
answer the charges put to her in that letter and I responded accordingly by letter
dated 21 December 2000 (page 168 of “EMT1”). In that letter I requested her

detailed written response to both that letter and my letter of 5 December 2000 by 4
January 2001.

On 23 December 2000, Tony Biolchi responded to Mrs Wolstenholme’s letter of 20
December 2000 (page 169 of “EMT1”) and on 3 January 2001, I wrote to Mrs
Wolstenholme following a conversation on 2 January 2001 requesting that she kept
me informed of the progress which was being made towards finalising a contract
between herself and Mr Patel to enable him to take on the temporary appointment. A
copy of that letter is at page 170 of “EMT1” and in that letter I state that Mr Patel had
been willing to take on the temporary appointment since 4 December 2000 and I

asked that every assistance be given to him in resuming Post Office services from the
premises.

On 4 January 2001, I received a letter from Mrs Wolstenholme. (page 171 of “EMT1”)
in response to my letter dated 21 December 2000 in which she indicated that it was
felt that she had already replied to the charges set out in my letter of 5 December
2000. She reiterated that she believed the losses to be attributable to the computer
system and that she could not be held responsible for them.

Mr Patel provided me with a copy of his letter to Mrs Wolstenholme and Mr Harrison
dated 9 January 2001 (page 172 of “EMT1”) in which he highlighted the various
issues namely the fact that it would not be possible for him to run a business without
a front door key as the Post Office would not grant him a licence to run the post office

Valo °

POL00118219
POLO00118219
37.

38.

39.

POL00118219

POL00118219

in circumstances where he has very restricted access to the premises and further that
he could not meet the demand that no visitors were allowed to enter the premises
outside business hours. He also raised the fact that the use of electric and gas
should be metered separately from the domestic side of the building (where Mrs
Wolstenholme's parents were living) particularly due to the high rent demand and
makes reference to the fact that this should be renegotiated.

On 17 January 2001, I wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme (page 173 of “EMT1”) stating that
some of the conditions in the draft Licence to operate the post office issued to Mr
Patel were unacceptable to the Post Office. I specifically stated that full unrestricted
access would be required to both the post office “allocated space” and the public area
and that the restriction which Mrs Wolstenholme was attempting to place on who
could access the premises through the back door was also unacceptable to the Post
Office. I asked her to let me know in writing within five days from the date of the letter
if she intended to make the premises available in a full and unrestricted manner and
stated that if I did not receive her agreement to these conditions, then I would have to
take it that she did not wish to offer the premises to the Post Office and that the Post
Office would seek to provide alternative premises from which to operate. Mrs
Wolstenholme did not respond within the required time and ultimately, Mr Patel
informed me that he was no longer interested in being appointed as temporary
sub-postmaster at Cleveleys. I wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme on 25 January 2001
(page 174 at “EMT1”) advising her that the Post Office would now be seeking
alternative premises from which to operate and would begin advertising for such
premises from 29 January 2001. I state in my letter that I did hope that she decided
to offer her premises to the Post Office as it was in everyone's interests to maintain
Post Office services from her premises.

In the meantime on 19 January 2001, I had written to Mrs Wolstenholme in response
to her written submissions as to why she considered that her contract should not be
terminated and in that letter I gave her 3 months Notice of termination of her contract

and set out the reasons why such notice had been given. A copy of that letter is at
pages 175-176 of “EMT1”.

By letter dated 29 January 2001, Mrs Wolstenholme responded to my letter of 25
January 2001 stating that terms and conditions had been submitted to Mr Patel in
which she makes reference to the matter of access. She further states that the Post
Office was being charged rent from 30 November onwards in respect of its equipment

\at :
40.

41.

42.

43.

which remained at the premises. This equipment later formed the subject matter of
the proceedings against Mrs Wolstenholme seeking the delivery and return of such
equipment. A copy of that letter is at page 177 of “EMT1”. I responded to Mrs

Wolstenholme'’s letter by letter dated 8 February 2001 and a copy of that letter is at
page 178 of “EMT1”.

Following the termination of her contract for services I wrote to Mrs Wolstenholme
regarding her remuneration and the losses on her account. The account showed an
overall final loss in the sum of £25,034.04. The remuneration due to Mrs
Wolstenholme totalled £19,322.85 which when off-set against the losses, leaves a
balance of £5,711.19 due from Mrs Wolstenholme. Copies of correspondence and
documents detailing the losses at are pages 179-189 of “EMT1”

As regards the Post Office’s equipment, I am informed that apart from the safes and
the computer equipment, the other items and equipment were removed by the Post
Office in or about August 2003. In the case of the scales, whilst Mrs Wolstenholme
claims that I removed the scales following the termination of her contract for services,
this was not the case. A copy of an itinerary of items removed from the premises in

‘February 2001 is at pages 190-191 of “EMT1” from which it can be seen that the

scales were not removed.

I have read the Amended Defence and Counterclaim served by Mrs Wolstenholme in
these proceedings and I note that Mrs Wolstenholme is claiming the loss of the
“Ingoing” which she claimed was paid to the Post Office in the sum of £82,500. In this
regard, no sum was paid whatsoever by Mrs Wolstenholme to the Post Office as it
was a family transfer as opposed to a sale by her father to her and the usual 25% fee
was not payable. Mr. Jackson's letter to me dated 21 September 1999 (page 1 of
“EMT1”) requests a transfer as opposed to a sale and further, the e-mail dated 12

October 1999 from Kim Sharp to Judith Gough (page 13 of “EMT1”) confirms that no
fee is payable.

Mrs Wolstenholme claims in paragraph 16 of her unsigned statement that “no one
higher up within the Post Office knew of the severity of the problems” and that she
believes I was “out of my depth”. I should state that my Line Manager, Tony Biolchi
was kept informed of the position throughout and I would update him and report on a
weekly basis. He was also given copies of any letters passing between myself and
Mrs Wolstenholme. I was also referring to the Personnel Adviser, Rebecca Robinson

\aS "

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

for contractual advice. Approximately 18,000 post offices are using the Horizon
system which is fully backed by the Federation of Sub-Postmasters. I am of the view
that the problems encountered by Mrs Wolstenholme stemmed from the misuse and
operation of the system and save for the early teething problems in February/March
2000 were not technical problems relating to the Horizon system itself. On the
occasions when I and other employees of the Post Office used the Horizon system at
Cleveleys Post Office we experienced no problems whatsoever. The Post Office had

grounds to terminate Mrs Wolstenholme’s contract and the contract was properly
terminated.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true.

sm GRO I

Dated : lbw Octp ber QwWM2Z

12% "
POL00118219
POL00118219

Claimant

EM Tagg

First

Exhibits “EMT1”

Dated : 16 October 2003

CLAIM NO CR101947
IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT

BETWEEN
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

Claimant
AND
MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME
Defendant
EXHIBIT “EMT1”

This is Exhibit marked “EMT1” referred to in the witness statement of Elaine Mary Tagg
dated the 16" day of October 2003.

\30°
POL00118219
POL00118219

NR MDP Taceco
Cxeveceys “8sr o-
Ro Kavayavsas “~t
FAVERN TOW eee,

Kanes. “ys 4a

2/ Serr. 799

Rean —Cacie
,

_7%s you Know, 4% Cave Seen atucsecd sy

GRO Bx eerguex ~y 20

eal © Ceveteys “US ro
7eGase Carte Sics Cele ac my a iKe<
aegepra Teen Cron Ke roc OF Sudpon Gras En
C@ve Ceys AUS. 77O, 4 Co0ounlee ask GKak Ge
Qeice Se Aargxeret S ny Mauy<ter

[MRS Tans So0«smevvorne anal cooncee ast G
’
eXe mecessary sranen en0r% Come Ce Ce He

Fang Xer oS clone aX Soon as poosecde .

Cezeous lathes 4 ;

a Dacian innincnnicnn

— ne
POL00118219

POL00118219

Mrs Julie Wolstenholme 12 October 1999

Dear Julie

Please find enclosed the official application form for the position of Subpostmaster
(1) at Cleveleys.

The remuneration is determined partly by an annual core payment paid in twelve
equal amounts and also a variable volume related payment which reflects the work
transacted at the office in an accounting period. By way of illustration £75,563.85
was paid for providing these services in the last twelve months.

The opening hours of the office, which can be liable to variation, are normally:

A

Monday : 09.00 :'5.30 Thursday: 09.00: 5.30
Tuesday : 09.00 : 5.30 Friday : 09.00:5.30
Wednesday: 09.00:5.30 Saturday: 09.00: 12.30

The facility to close the office in the middle of the day and on the weekly half day
holiday is subject to certain conditions. The main business at the office includes the
sale of postage stamps, filling and clearing of stamp-selling machines, treatment of
postal packets including overseas parcels, despatch and receipt of mails, supervision
of outdoor delivery services and all work connected with the sale of Government
Publications, Postal Orders, Pension and Allowances, Savings Certificates, Savings
Bank, Government Stock and Annuities, Television Licences, Television Licence
Stamp Savings, Motor Vehicle Licence, Savings Stamps, Telephone Accounts,
Telephone Saving Stamps, National Insurance, Premium Savings Bonds, Local
Taxation Licences, Girobank, Bureau De Change, Travel and Lottery Products.

Subpostmasters must also undertake any other business or duty not currently at the ~

office, if required to do so. Subpostmasters receive training and instruction to enable
them to carry out their business and are supplied with Rule Books for their guidance
which they should keep up to date and with which they should make themselves
familiar.

132
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Subpostmasters are obliged to provide and pay for any assistance which is necessary
to conduct the work at their office, and must ensure that the conditions of service
and their Assistants are no less favourable than those agreed for shop assistants
generally in the same district. Subpostmasters are required to provide for the
lighting, heating and cleaning of their offices and, additionally, where Post Office
staff are employed on their premises, as well as ensuring adequate lighting, heating
and ventilation, Subpostmasters should ensure that the Post Office staff have access
toa lavatory, sufficient hat and coat pegs and facilities for washing and tea making.

A Subpostmaster is held responsible for the conduct and balances of his office,
whether he is in attendance or not, and must make satisfactory provision for the
performance of the work of the office at his own expense whilst he is absent.

There are a number of appointments which Subpostmasters are prohibited from
holding without prior permission from Post Offices Counters Ltd, and I would refer
you to questions 11 and 12 on the application form. I should also point out that
Subpostmasters are only allowed to hold an 'on' licence for the sale of alcoholic
liquor where the Post Office is not situated in the licensed premises.

Unless a Subpostmaster, or his spouse, is the owner of the proposed sub-office
prémises, the premises should be held on a lease agreement which would enable him
to comply with his obligation to give three months notice of resignation of
appointment. He must provide at his own expense any reasonable office
accommodation and fittings that we may require for carrying out the work of the
office. These fittings comprise among other things, a counter, counter drawers and
tills for the official stock of stamps, postal orders, etc., a cupboard or drawers of
forms, a safe or other approved container (where not provided) affording good
resistance to attack by thieves, a suitable locker to enable registered items to be held
in safe custody, a clock and certain small stores.

Certain fittings may be purchased on application to the Regional Network Manager,
from whom particulars and approximate prices can be obtained. The provision of a
counter screen to ensure privacy is desirable at Savings Bank Offices and a drawing
of a suitable and inexpensive screen will be supplied by the Retail Network Manager
on request. The Subpostmaster will not be required to provide the letter box, but
must, if necessary provide space for it, and also for a stamp-selling machine, if
required, at a convenient place outside his premises.

He will be required to supply and fix a notice board showing the name of the office
and to provide, or obtain from the owner any necessary consent for telephone
leading-in facilities on the premises. If a number has been allocated to the premises
by the local authority, it should be clearly displayed over the doorway or in some
other suitable position. Suitable space should be made available for the display of

official:/

133
POL00118219

POL00118219

-4-

[appname]
12 October 1999

official notices inside the office. The agreed accommodation provided for carrying
on the work of the office must not be altered without the consent of the Regional
Network Manager.

Subpostmasters are obliged to give three months notice should they wish to resign
their appointment. If they fail to give three months notice they. will be liable for any
expense incurred by Post Office Counters Ltd in conducting the business of the
office, and any outstanding sums due to them will be withheld and used to offset the
expense incurred.

When a Subpostmasters resigns, his successor will be appointed at the outgoing
Subpostmasters premises, unless the Retail Network Manager has indicated that he
wishes to close or resite the office, or no acceptable candidate can be found to take
over the appointment in the existing premises before the outgoing Subpostmaster
completes his period of notice. I should also point out that an applicant who
purchases the private business of a Subpostmaster or takes over premises in which a
sub-office has been situated has no claim to the appointment as a Subpostmaster, as
the filling of any appointment as Subpostmaster is entirely a matter for Post Office
Counters Ltd.

If you have any queries about your application, please telephone me o

Yours sincerely

Judith Gough
Agent Recruitment

(1) 'Subpostmaster' Includes 'Subpostmistress'

IS 4
POL00118219
POL00118219

APPENDIX A

PLEASE ENSURE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION IS INCLUDED WITH
YOUR APPLICATION:-

1) Application form (P188) fully completed

2) Personal information in the form of a full C.V.

3) Two recent passport size photographs of yourself.

PRE-APPOINTMENT TRAINING

If successfully appointed you will be required to attend a pre-appointment training
session immediately prior to taking up the position. The training will be for
approximately two days and will also be offered to your spouse or partner.

CONDITIONS OF APPOINTMENT

Details of any modifications/conditions to the office are shown overleaf.

\3s
POL00118219
POL00118219

1 Uniformity of dress for all staff to be introduced within three months of date of
transfer

2 All Post Office Counters Ltd standards to be reached within three months of date of
transfer

3 Interior walls and ceilings to be redecorated within one year of date of transfewr, and
every six months therafter

4 Carpet to public side of counter to be cleaned within six months , and every six
months thereafter

5 Counter screens to be cleared of all notices within one week of date of transfer

ISG
POL00118219
POL00118219

WWNEALIYD> aru
- a)

P188(Subpostmaster)
(Revd. May 1999)

In Confidence

POST
OFFICE

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD

* The expression “Subpostmaster” includes “Subpostmistress” throughout. For Post Office Use Only

Ref. No:
ClEvYetSeiS “SPQ
Name and address of post office vacancy I 2 onu—mene ave
you are applying for: clevereuS FUS IDF.

Name
fin block letters)

Sumame(or family name):

WoUsTEernoime

Title (Mr/Mrs/Miss/Ms or other)

mes

Forenames (in full)

VOWVE

Previous names (if applicable)

eg. name at birth, other names you have
been known as.

Permanent Address

(in full and in block letters)

Home:
Business:
If at this address for less than

five years, please state

previous address:

‘Your National Insurance number:

Date of birth:

Place of birth (Town/County):
Country:

Telephone number

Have you any debts or mortgages of any kind?
If so, please give particulars on a separate sheet
of paper, stating the amounts owed and
method of repayment.

Have you ever been the subject of bankruptcy
proceedings (i.e. declared bankrupt, or
executed deed of assignment or made a
composition with your creditors)?

If YES, please give particulars and, state
whether discharge has been obtained.

POL00118219
POL00118219

P188(Subpostmaster) {
(Revd. May. 1999)

5. Please give details of any convictions, including motoring (but not parking) offences. Convictions or findings treated ’
spent by virtue ofthe Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 should not be included. If therefore, the only conviction ©.
finding against you is treated as spent, your answers to 5a-c should be “NO”.

Have you at any time:
been convicted or found of YES ] No
it to fo ty o re

an offence for which you wete absolutely or
conditionally discharged or placed on

probation?

(b) been bound over without conviction for any vs [_] no [47
offence?

(Q had a summons issued against you or any YES CJ no [oy

charge brought against you in respect of any
offence which has not yet been disposed of?

If the answer is YES for questions 5a -5c please give details:

6. DISABILITY -

Ifyou are currently disabled, or have been disabled, this will not prevent you being considered for the vacancy you are

applying for provided that you are able to fulfil the requirements of the vacancy. If there are any particular requireme: s
which you would need Post Office Counters to provide in order to assist you when attending fox interview, please sta:
fully what these are.

33
rm

POL00118219
POL00118219

P188(Subpostmaster)
(Revd. May 1999)

Do you own or are you acquiring those premises?

If the premises are, or will be, leased or rented, what
period of notice of termination of tenancy will you be
subject to?

Are there any restrictions which prevent the use of the
premises as a sub post office?

Has any necessary planning permission or bye-law
consent been obtained

Will you reside at the premices?

Mes

NO

NO

NO

If appointed, do you propose to follow any other
occupation or engage in any other business on the
premises in which the post office. is situated? If so,
please give details.

If you propose to engage in some other business who
will be the owner (5) of that business?

Have you acquired, or do you intend to acquire, the
private business of the outgoing Subpostmaster?

If so, do you understand that the acquisition of the
business does not entitle you to preferential
consideration for post office business?

YES

10.

Are the premises intended to be used as the post office
(“the Post Office premises”) situated in or adjacent to
“licensed” premises under your control? If so, state the
nature of the licence held. If it is an “on” licence, a plan
should be attached showing the relationship of the
post office premises to the “licensed” premises and
should indicate clearly the proposed means of public
access to the post office.

11.

‘Are the premises in which the post office will be
situated used for any of the following kinds of activity?
ie 2o, give ful

Business connected with a parcel delivery
company or otherwise with the carriage of

parcels.

b. Activity such as a building, provident or friendly
Society or bill payment facility, which involves or
could involve the receipt or deposit of money?

c.__ Business connected with a licensed betting office.

‘Are you related to any person employed by The Post
Office or holding an appointment as subpostmaster? If
So, state the person's name and position.

Have you, or any member of your household, ever held
an appointment as subpostmaster or been employed in
a sub post office or by The Post Office in any capacity?
If so, give full particulars and state under what
circumstances the appointment or employment ceased.

MR M.A. PAcIESO”)
SoG ~- Fost asTsZ,

SEE

WG.

13.

Are you applying for the appointment of
subpostmaster as a nominee of any organisation,
business or other body?

If you are, does the organisation, business or other
body hold, through a nominee or nominees, any other
subpostmaster appointment or appointments? If so,
give the name and address of the organisation.

139
Self-employed

Dates of Employment From:

Brief outline of responsibilities and reason for leavin,
Ba tome

Industry Sector:
(Please tick the main business activity)

Wholesale/Retail Trade

Banking/Finance/ Insurance

Education

Health & Social Work

a) Public admin - local and central government
b) Armed Services

©) Police

d) Other community services

IT industry

Post Office employee

Other (please specify).

Ske

POL00118219
POL00118219

P188(Subpostmaster)
d. May 1999)

Please say whether reference may be made now to your
present employer (if applicable):

If “No” please state reason(s)::

vs no CJ

[40 -
POL00118219
POL00118219

i PLEASE ACCOUNT FOR ANY GAPS IN YOUR EMPLOYMENT HISTORY WITHIN THE LAST FIVE YEARS:
15. Employer's name and address......!¥E&es....!N eID.

Job Title:.... Rear... AGE Em.

L Dates of Employment From::....::--BV.QN.oo0 MV revveccesessnseee

eesiorneped

1 4
I Dates of Employment From:.

Brief Outline of responsibilities and reason for leaving:

Employer's name and address.

Job Title...

; Dates of Employment From:

Brief Outline of responsibilities and reason for leaving:

Employer's name and address...

Job Title:..

Dates of Employment From:

Brief Outline of responsibilities and reason for leaving:

(LA
POL00118219
POL00118219

’ P188(Subpostmaster) 6

Please give details of two responsible people whom we may approach for personal references. Personal referees must
well acquainted with you, have known you for a minimum of 2 years and must not be related to you. I

Address:
(in fall and in block letters)

Name:
Address:
(in fall and in block letters)

Please say whether references
may be taken now:

If“No” please state reason(s)::

17. Ifyou are invited to interview, please list below any dates during the next 6-8 weeks when you would NOT be av

lable.

6. Please tick one of the following to indicate where you heard about or saw the vacancy,

Heard from someone who works for Post Office Counters - as.a subpostmaster

- as an employee ey

Advertisement in a post office oo
Post office mailing list jeans}

Business (estate) agent oO

Internet Cc

-

19. DECLARATION a

I declare that I have answéred all the questions truthfully and fully, and that I am not aware of any circumstances which,
if known to Post Office Counters Ltd, might cause it to question my honesty and suitability for appointment as
subpostmaster. I understand that if this declaration or any of the particulars furnished by me is or was known by me to
have been false, Post Office Counters Ltd will be entitled to bring my contract to an end forthwith.

I agree to The Post Office confirming my National Insurance number with the Inland Revenue (National Insurance Office).

Signature of applicant

GRO I

Date: 16 LO-AQ.

POL00118219
POL00118219

Electronic memo

To Judith Gough/POCL/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
cc Elaine Tagg/POCL/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
Hard Copy To

Hard Copy cc

From Kim Sharp/POCL/POSTOFFICE

Date 12/10/99 09:23

Subject Fwd: Family Transfer- MSPO 3)

Judith

Response from John Cole:-

Family transfer OK. No fee as the transfer is due to ill health.

Kim
To John Cole/POCL/POSTOFFICEG.
cc Judith Gough/POCL/POSTOFFICI
Tagg/POCL/POSTOFFICEG.

Hard Copy To
Hard Copy cc
From Kim Sharp/POCLIPOSTOFFICE
Date 11/10/99 14:36
Subject Family Transfer - MSPO.

f John

The Spmr at Cleveleys MSPO has resigned on i and put forward his daughter,
Julie Wolstenholme as the new Spmr. Could you please answer a few of quick questions:-

1. Can 'Family Transfer’ take place at an MSPO?

2. We are in receipt of a letter from the Spmrs solicitors which states "...we are instructed by Mr & Mrs
Jackson in the sale of Cleveleys Post Office to Roger Harrison and Julie Wolstenholme..."

If the office can be transferred to his daughter, would she have to pay the 25% fee?

Thanks

Elaine

You mention in your note to Judith that an auditor will not be required at this transfer. My
understanding is that an auditor must be present at any transfer - has something changed?

142
I Julie Wolstenholme of GRO.

1,

POL00118219
POLO00118219

STATEMENT OF JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

“ICleveleys, Lancashire will say as follows:

My earliest recollections of a Post Office were when I was about 8 years ald
when my mother and father used to run the North Shore Post Office in
Blackpool. We then moved to Haslingden and they ran a Post Office there for
about ten years until they returned to Cleveleys in about 1990.

When I left school at 16 years I tried my hand at several things until I was 18.
T then went to work for my father in the Post Office. That was at first in
Haslingden and then I moved to Clevevleys and worked in Cleveleys Post Office.
My father then bought this business at rented premises at 19 Crescent West
Cleveleys. I worked there for about 6 years, then my father decided to
purchase a building, adapt it to Post Office specifications and Cleveleys Post
Office was moved round the corner to 2 Runnymede Ave Cleveleys. During the
time I had my three chil T still managed to work part-time, until my father

had to resign due to}, My ex-partner and myself decided to purchase
the premises and business from my parents.

The business and premises were put on the market at £186,000,

We came to a compromise and purchased it from them at the reduced price of
£150,000. We got finance from the Yorkshire Bank. They agreed to lend us
£100,000. That left £50,000, borrowed from my parents to be paid back at
£5,000 per year for 10 years. We knew at the time that the basic income from
the Post Office would produce, for the two of us before tax, a profit of about
£75,000. This was enough for us to pay staff, make the payments to the bank
and my parents, and have enough left to live on.

T knew how the Post Office was run and I knew the methods that

had been used in it for many years. However my parents helped considerably
over the first couple of months. This helped for a smooth transition. Training
was of fered by the Post Office but only half a days training took place.

About 3 months after taking over the business I received notice

from the Post Office that the new computer system - Horizon being installed
into every Post Office in the country was being put into my office. This was
done-at no cost to us, there was no choice about having the system, and we had
to have it. Everybody in the office was sent for training so as to use the new
system, My ex-partner and myself received one and a half days training and all
other staff had one day training. When we actually converted over to the
computerised system a Support Officer from Horizon stayed to help for 2 days
and then we were left on our own. Almost from the beginning things started to
go wrong. We had countless problems with the system, These would included the
system crashing up to 5 times a day, the main base unit being swapped out
countless times, ghost transactions happening and more importantly, excessive
miss-balances. The system would alter, swap or delete figures of its own accord.
We were always onto the Horizon help desk team. They sometimes were helpful
but often they gave us something to try and when we tried it and it did not
POL00118219
POL00118219

work we phoned again and would get a different person who would tell us
something completely different. Eventually when the Horizon help desk could
not help us, Horizon themselves began to admit that there were software and
hardware problems with the system. They knew that our system was not
operating correctly.

I am not saying that all the problems have lasted all the time.

Some of the problems were solved but certainly not all of them. From time to
time we checked with other Post Offices, particularly the main Post Office in
Blackpool. We found that we were operating the system the same way that they
were and therefore we were not at fault. We did, however, change our own
systems that had been used for many years to try and put in further fail-safe
improvements. For instance, we made every person in the office responsible for
their own stock. This was to try and identify some of the problems. It did not
really help, although it caused an awful lot more work. We also installed CCTV
cameras to check up on the staff but that did not bring forward any solutions,
There were major problems with the system and there were still no answers. AS
far as the Post Office is concerned they were always right and it is always
somebody else's fault. The problems went on for 10 months, and seemingly,
according to the Post Office we were. about £13,000 in debt. We knew that we
had not had it, nor the staff and we knew the system was at fault but as far as
the Post,Office was concerned it was down to us.

The final straw came on the 29% November 2000 when we were

unable to balance our office because of problems with the system. We asked
for help from the Horizon help desk and they told us we were still having major
software problems, the stock units were beyond redemption and under their
instructions we were told it would be impossible to balance. As a last resort we
decided we could no longer work with the computers and we would revert back
to the old manual way of operating our office until the system was deemed
100% fully operational. On the 30™ November we opened the office as usual but
did not turn on the computers. This resulted in our Retail Network Manager,
Elaine Tagg, phoning us. She asked for an explanation. We told her that until
the problems with the computers were sorted out we would refuse to use them.
She said right, and explained she would be down before 10.00am with a letter
of suspension. She arrived and handed me a letter of suspension (see letter no
1), She also handed me a second letter (see letter no 2) that referred toa
letter written to me on the 20™ November 2000 (see letter no 3). The basic
content of the letter dated 20" November 2000 is not right. She particularly
says at paragraph 4 that a full health check was given to our system in week 4.
This is the second letter (see letter no 4) I had received from her stating the
system was fully operational. In actual fact I have two letters sent to me from
the Post Office (see letters 5 & 6) these are fairly self-explanatory and are
critical of the problems, even though according to Elaine Tagg during these
dates the system was “healthy”. I also managed to obtain from Horizon, their
computerised records of the number and nature of calls that were to and from
Horizon help desk. These go from 9” February 2000 when the computers went
on line to the 21° June 2000. These show the many calls that were made. (See
no 7 bundle of 71 pages). Also (see no 8) a computer print out showing the sort
of error that the computers were capable of. Unfortunately I have been unable

ly
wee

3

10.

11.

to obtain the record of calls made between the ends of June 2000 to 30"
November 2000.

After Elaine Tagg had handed me the letter of suspension she

Demanded the keys to the building, Because the building was ours we would not
give them to her. She then insisted that we shut the door, get rid of all the
customers and she told all the staff to go home. She refused us permission to
touch any of the Post Office Equipment in the premises, Closing the office was
a major blow to the Township of Cleveleys, especially as it wos approaching
Christmas. I asked Elaine Tagg on what grounds she was suspending me. I told
her that I was prepared to run the Post Office, keep it open using the
traditional methods. This would only have produced a greater amount of work
but that was nothing compared to the problems encountered with the
computers. Her response was to tell me that she did not need to give me any
grounds at the present time as to why I had been suspended. Later that day she
brought another Retail Network Manager and four auditors in. They stayed for
the rest of the day and all day Friday trying to balance the accounts. On Friday
they bagged up all the cash and stock at the office ready for Securicor to take
away the following Monday. The auditors returned on Monday, which was the 4"
December 2000. I have never been told the result of that audit, even though I
should have been allowed to check the results.

On Friday 8 December 2000 I received a phone call froma Mr.

Asif Patel saying that he had been appointed by Elaine Tagg as the relief Post
Office Manager, and did I have any objections to him coming to see me. I said
no and I met him on the Friday. He asked for certain figures like my salary,
overheads, outgoings etc. I supplied him with whatever he wanted to know.

On the day I was closed down I asked Elaine Tagg what would to happen

the Post Office business. She referred to the fact that the Post Office would
want to try and keep the office open. I referred her to the fact that these
were my ex-partners premises and mine. She said yes, they would arrange to
rent them off us, and the normal amount they paid was equivalent to 10% of my
salary which would have worked out at £150.00 per week. I pointed out to her
that this was nowhere near sufficient. Over the weekend, after thinking about
what Elaine Tagg had said about the rent, I decided to get some professional
advice and the following week I instructed-two local surveyors. One was-
Broomheads who did turn up and the other one didn't. It was Broomheads who
said the proper commercial rent should be £300.00 per week.

On the 18" December 2000 I received a second letter confirming

Mr. Asif Patel had been authorised as the temporary Sub Post-Master. I told
him of the rent that was required. We were also told to get a lease drawn up
(see no 9) Later I heard from another Post Office that they had received a
comment from Elaine Tagg that the demand of £300.00 for rent of the
premises was extortionate, I received a comment from Mr. Patel that he had
spoken to his accountant and thought the rent was quite high and was it
negotiable. I said no, not really because of the overheads, and he said that he
would go back to the Post Office because they were apparently trying to assist

Ike

POL00118219
POLO00118219
NK

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

POL00118219
POL00118219

him with funding. I next heard through a local Newspaper (see no 10) that the
Post Office was advertising for premises and that mine were no longer being
considered.

After we were first closed down myself and my ex-partner

continued to run our small retail business within the premises, but unfortunately
with everybody knowing that the Post Office had closed we did not get the
custom and it cost us to stay open. So we had to close down this business,
Jeaving us with a lot of stock including perishables, which we were unable to sell.

Finally we received a letter dated 19" January 2001 (see no 11).

That was in response to my letter to her. This letter highlights a number of
specific complaints. In paragraph 1 it states I failed to meet the obligation to
manage the office properly and I failed to account for of ficial cash and stock
properly. In the time that I was Sub-Postmistress I have only had good reports
of the way I ran the Office (see no 12 bundle of 8 reports ), In paragraph 3 she
says that there have been a number of error notices and subsequent losses
made at the office which I failed to contact her about. She also states that I
should have notified her of any losses over £200.00. She knew of all our losses
(see no 13 bundle of 6 letters, also letter dated3/11/00, no 12). You are not
allowed to carry any losses without first seeking consent from you Retail
Network Manager. In paragraph 4 she says that she suggested I introduce
accounting records on the office action plan. She wanted me to use checking
procedures. Her suggestion was that I ran a manual accounting system alongside
the computerised system. That was just physically impossible to do because of
the extra workload. I agreed to do one or the other.

It is true that I did fail to provide details of how the losses had

incurred. I still do not know how these have been incurred, although Horizon is
well aware of our complaints, I do not accept that there is a loss in excess of
£13,000. Any error notices that had not been brought to account were ones
that I dispute. I accept that I did make a mistake with some obsolete scratch

cards, but given the conditions and pressure I as working under this was only a
‘small error.

I cannot understand why, when Elaine Tagg knew of all the

Problems I was having with the computer system, she even stated that she had
not experienced any other office apart from mine where all the computers ran-
so slow, also she sent a card and a plant (see no 14) to apologise for all the
problems I was having, why was she so quick to close the office down. It would
have only taken 1 person, even Elaine Tagg herself to keep the Post Office open
and running and keep my 7 staff in employment. I read an article in the Sub-
Postmasters Courier (see no 15) of how another office was dealt with when they
had system problems.

After I had been closed down I found very few doors open within

Post Office where I could ask for help. I eventually approached my local
councillor (see no 16) and then my local MP- Joan Humble. She wrote to the Post
Office on my behalf and the letter received back from them was quite shocking
(see no 17 bundle of 2 letters). Even the Reply and Defence to counterclaim

re
eo

o>

17.

18.

paragraph 3.3 (see no 18) sent to court claims more misinformation (see no 19).
It seems that no one higher up within the Post Office knew of the severity of
problems I had experienced. I believe Elaine Tagg was out of her depth with
the problems that had occurred and believe she behaved very irrationally in the
decisions she made. When she could have acted in the same way as the other
Post Office in letter 15.

I do not accept that I have received from the Post Office a valid
Severance of he Agreement. The letter Elaine Tagg purports to give me 3

months notice dated the 19"* January 2001 to expire on the 28 February 2001.

Finally 3 of my staff, Mrs A. Kirkby, Mrs E. Ormerod and Miss L.

Griffiths, have taken me to the Employment Tribunal for compensation, even
though I was not responsible for their loss of employment. Elaine Tagg closed
the Post Office therefore there was no job left for them.

Us

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

(
Report on Candidates for Subpostmastership
Name of vacant office
CrevercyS — mse6
Region
Northern Territory, (nwa)
-, 7
Details of Candidates
State whether married, widow/widower or single. If married, particulars respecting the
spouse should also be given.
Surname First Names Title I Age I Character Status
WWOVSTEN MONG rou & ones. - Marced ,
1 Is the applicant free to take up unrestricted employment in the UK?
yes
2 Will the candidate or spouse (if married) be the lessee/ owner of the premises?
rd 3 Nature of private business, if any:

Cards \ Stottucars,

4 What occupation, if any, will be followed?

ons?
5 Does the applicant hold any prohibited agency or appointment?
NO
6 "If the applicant is offering alternative premises, what is the distance from the existing premises?

a\s

7 Number of persons available as assistants and their age(s):__ Number Age(s)

G \Wortoys_-
Interview report
The purpose of the interview is to seek evidence of the applicant's suitability for the position of
Subpostmaster.

This evidence should be based on the applicant's past experience and should enable you to answer the
questions posed in sections 1 to 5 of the form to make an overall assessment of the candidate.

Applicants differ as individuals and in life experience. Therefore, you should go through this form
before each interview to work out how you should look for the evidence needed to complete this form.
(Use the candidate's application form to prompt ideas when preparing your interview plan, and make
notes of the things you will discuss).

Remember - You should try to look for actual evidence from the applicant's past experience.

The points marked with an asterisk (*) should only be completed if the applicant is going to be involved
in the day to day running of the office.

For each question always include brief notes of the evidence on which you based your final decision.
This evidence and a clear statement of your overall assessment on page 4 (for both successful and
unsuccessful candidates) will be essential for:

1 reviewing the success of advertising and other recruitment campaigns

2 dealing with re-applications or enquiries about unsuccessful applicants

» / 49 OP/01409 2/88

P274 Rev Oct 87
ei

POL00118219
POL00118219

1 Why did the applicant first think of becoming a Subpostmaster? Whose idea was
Origins of plansto —_it? How well researched is it? Has anyone supported/encouraged him/her?

beaSubpostmaster Agel wed cure weks got time hor
Qa affice. WS [GRO I > Boeing, rebrement

omdk Wie ond hor \anvownch Reh Xe Ren, his va Weir

wy be Ware Cuan lysines I Won G20, filly supgtech tay
gonads , Yate Yon avec Baste accounted

2 2a _Is the applicant able to provide sufficient capital for this venture? If money
Current plans is being borrowed, are the repayment terms reasonable in terms of likely
income available?

SfRcient fied ore onodagle ond we

han  odkeorned Kany Bor Woon . AN devens cre rasenalle

ND ORE camacdhe wo lea a hey tants ©

2b Does the applicant have any family or other support to assist, to ‘cover’ for
absence etc?

tes TWie’s madsar leads tO awer

3 * 3a Is the applicant aware of the attendance requirements? Are there any
Personal reasons why he/she cannot meet these requirements? What are the
Circumstances reasons?

Aghteud Ly amore - Ahre cuncenty oA

ced, Naish WL permet SI

* 3b Does the applicant have any illness/ disability that would prevent him/her
carrying out the duties of a Subpostmaster?

No- ng -

3c Will the applicant devote sufficient attention to the office (directly or
through agents/subordinates) to ensure that commercial and operational
standards are maintained?

Yes. Baik cro amd baw battand haat,
dakaled Wartadh® fo ensiee siivest cvdey weaye to
meck bal Wsmnss amd customar — AdeRaMAS.

P274 Rev Oct 87

I Ss Oo OP /01409 2/88
POL00118219
POL00118219

Consider the applicant's knowledge, experience and achievements, both inside

4

Suitability for the and outside work.
job
4a Suitability for counter work

* 1 Clerical/Accounting/Record keeping aspects of the work. Give evidence.
Tires Oxptence 03 a coder chee ard
hav sdoskRen hon how Ruino- te cn lew DB exrdance
rok sho Koo Yeo sas Nar — Gor ss welt

* 2 Customer Service. Give evidence.

Ayes, Wie ord Xo dasby WWR cartovevs ond
oy wily od ee counter,

4b” Suitability for managing the sub-post office

1 Forward planning (eg has he/she been effective at monitoring needs,
anticipating future requirements, particularly stocks and staffing?)

Whe will need Nahe ow Bd x te fos. We hove
odveody dsurd row skoQoy, CXS om Tie shaved

Qo we onkrayoday aks aud Aes A DML crow .
srantn Rak glomntig and NNR wit -
ss wow PY Dootion making (eg has the applicant been effective in making important
decisions and standing by them?)

MH Do wi ODetTon tee SKKO adh Sar Wushomd NA hue
» dmraminh We paste —glfalls bk low, ove datevemak WH 6
Oo cp ever andr Wand b wale a sumes Q AWd
wire canagh Wok lem WRK NS peverts -offto
3 Implementation (eg has the applicant been able to put his/her plans and

plans from others into practice and make sure that they are being done
properly?) Give evidence.

INe sogied Askaled Qlans = bdk Promote om cgrotionsl I
Sho dros on Nr OAK Ggarcacer aA AO cre och Sogyt

Yo fran or Ros » New why ghwas RX enaure
RQ \aiinoss TOMS CuSO! Rocwred Nad Ao  awrs Ww

wey -

ISI
POL00118219

POL00118219
274 Rev Oct 87 OP/01409 2/88
4b continued 4 Staffing (eg recruiting, training and supporting staff; supervising staff;

supervising and motivating; delegating). Give evidence.
Ture hos no exgewence of  reonthy stuff
Sho kao hevrower syentred thea octstny al dum, hor
Sons dssenceS - IN2. dBarared Man oki to bow
Qundk ho pads dunk Mack Some nranaars one ocugonis >
* 5 Relationship with the Post Office (eg has he/she followed procedures and

yonondy baw ok guidelines, accepted the advice of managers, submitted returns and reports
graven . to deadlines etc?)

Me uss hw fate oo a che rrodel ono
lwo hack HO ADQ Sanse of conmbennd fo PICL

od needy Teacosnsd BK or walt grvcced I

5 Consider the applicant's past references and aversions, both inside and outside
Motivation/ work, as well as his/her stated motivation in Sections 1 and 2.
Personality

5a __ Self motivations (eg has the applicant been able to push himself/herself and
‘ get things done without others standing over him/her?) Give evidence.

Tues deTSTon Yo become shh, engl wh bev Winhowd
WARE cuaany hor Wont + Wee chew B ddiden. dos
ow ‘east wer twin aA) fo Soceed I

5b _ Entrepreneurial qualities (eg does the applicant want to make a real success
of this venture? Has he/she made a success of any previous full-time or
part-time ventures? Does he/she possess business acumen? Could he/she
identify new products for Counters?) Give evidence.

as olane.

5c Is the candidate likely to be responsible in the job? Have you any reason to
doubt the candidate’s honesty? Look at previous jobs to see if
responsibility was given/taken) Give evidence.

TU shows a aor saorse reyganne: ir 6A
Hy encdance Re Wer san tor ob ek hat EE

& \ow \Wonentry -

5d Could the candidate cope with day to day pressures in the job? What
evidence do you have?

Ye- Wo ky aed wo ‘re gremtersly durniy
os, milk er — gavtadS-

1S2
POL00118219

POL00118219
P274 Rev Oct 87 0P/01409 2/88
Overall Assessment
Consider 1 whether or not the applicant is likely to be successful as a subpostmaster.

and 2 whether the applicant is likely to remain a subpostmaster for some time.

\ feeh Wie

uxl\ eo Soccesl wm Ais verre - She hwo

hock A aed Qrnadidy hoy wohad on Ans offtte cond
oso droning, on yor Qpukrows ecpeviences - Sho aces
Mo nid AO we Ap wants ao latky roi
easiennnadt wr We ofhive I SOD Cons 80ND,

Sheen bio Lee
Bred. Lens, deran \ feel sho

os Be WorkHel occassme Wore bat

enohke A  aorek office. baker

Please include detailed reasons for your acceptance or rejection of the

applicant.

BR >) canmmleh AD Manca, a sdogusbmaster . Sho ADS
Wa wet Se oo Wa All sugwh 4 all: tev fowly

ASS NE

ha Warn, ov  dSffrulh — Nayottun of

om Sho gdvoder - Sra Kon Shaw Hm oyreark antwaiwn mn fw

Yeriron oursh

D> lon B® Wa Heo

a Ae Reveal aww

Final Decision
ACCEPT /R&#8CYJ (delete as appropriate)

Name

Awe  TARG

Grade

EX
Name
AHL Haneda
Grade
COM>
Name

QrAw & TARR

Grade
CAA AL

i G R O t Post Office Counters Ltd

Sy November 1999

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

lam delighted to inform you that your application for the Subpostmastership of

Cleveleys Post Office, in the premises situated at 2 Runnymede Avenue, has been
successful.

The transfer of the office will take place on a mutually convenient date, normally on

the half day closure, when a member of Post Office Counters Ltd staff will attend to
transfer the cash and stock to you.

The present Subpostmaster has been notified of your appointment and I would be
grateful if you would write to the Agent Recruitment Manager at the address given
below when the legal affairs connected with the transfer of the business/ property
have been completed.

Please find enclosed with this letter two copies of a list of the main conditions
attached to your appointment. Would you kindly confirm your acceptance of these
conditions by signing one copy and returning it, in the envelope provided, to the
Agent Recruitment Manager. Please do not hesitate to ring if you need further
information about your appointment.

May I take this opportunity to welcome you to the ranks of our subpostmasters and
to wish you every success in this venture.

Post:/

Post Office Counters Led
Human

ource Service Centre

Salford
facepdone

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

Dis
[appname]
November 1999

Post office Counters Ltd will endeavour to support you through every stage of your

appointment. You can contact our Human Resource Service Centre at Salford Quays,
Manchester, on}

Good luck!

Yours sincerely

Elaine Tagg
Retail Network Manager

Enclosures

Copy to Security Manager
Network Transformation

Iss
POL00118219
POL00118219

7 North
RETURN COPY

® : . _ I Post Office Counters Ltd
. Human Resource Service Centre
ad Freepost NWW 1675A.
SALFORD
M5 9JB

1 Your remuneration will be paid in accordance with the arrangements set out in
Section 2(M) of the contract. It is estimated that your first monthly payment will

be in the region of £6296.99 made up of £1373.50 core payment and £4923.49
volume related payment.

2 It was explained at your interview the importance which Post Office Counters
Ltd places on the provision of an acceptable standard of service of both the
client and the customer. Here I would draw your attention to section 11(M) of
the contract. I would specifically emphasise the importance of staffing levels
being acceptable to myself. POPOS displays must be kept up to date.

3 You agreed that an area would be designated specifically to the provision of
Post Office services and that there would, at all times, be free and unimpeded
access from the entrance to this area.

It should be understood that no change would be made to the size and location
of this area without first referring the proposals to myself.

4 The office opening hours, as agreed at interview, will be:

Monday to Friday 09.00: 5.30
Saturday 09.00 : 12.30

5 The following conditions will also be attached to your appointment and must be
completed within the timescales indicated:

Uniformity of dress for all staff to be introduced within three months of transfer
All business standards to be reached within three months of transfer (as
detailed in attached leaflet)

Interior walls and ceilings to be redecorated within one year of transfer and
every six months thereafter

Carpet to public side of counter to be cleaned within six months, and every six
months thereafter

Counter screens to be cleaned of all notices within one week of transfer

ISlo
POL00118219
POL00118219

I 6 Asanincoming Subpostmaster there is an obligation for you to implement any PY
. security recommendations made by the Regional Security Section. Any works

should be completed no later than three months after your appointment, and
I may I remind you that no alteration to the Post Office accommodation should

be made without first consulting myself.

I 7 You will be bound by the terms of the standard Subpostmasters’ Contract for
Services at Modified Payment Offices!

I To: The Agent Recruitment Manager

Y ey I, Julie Wolstenholme, fully understand and accept these conditions

Date VAAL

ul

CLEVELEYS POST OFFICE

IST
POL00118219

POL00118219

Call Details E-0002090182

QERESEAS pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pw, PH4PANIR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00
Call E-0002090182 p>

[Closed Openect:I Wed 09 February 2000 10:29 7 Sie:] 153405

“4A Closed: ]wh¢ 09 February 2000 13:07 ‘Customer: I 1039

2190 I uk056391 / PATH1

Caller £
Calter: [Patsy at exel Phone: i Sie:[153405
Tite! Login’ Department:

Caller ID: Location:

Call Problem Details

Product Type:] I Cai TypefY I ProbType:]IMO7 ] Probie

Problem Text:} 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090182. Gateway is now stuck at 3%.

Cali Closure Details

Closed:]09/02/00 13:01 [ CauseIcat I Repair]RO9 I Resolution: I RSO8

Text:I Call Close by David Craggs: Call closed

Cail Asset Detaiis

‘Asset IO: Description:
Product: [unknown product Deseription:I Unknown Product
Call Activity Log

[OPEN —- Wed 09 February 2000 10:27 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:29

New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090182. Gateway is now stuck at 3%.
REASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 10:31 by EXLO06 / EXEL + Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:31

Call # -0002090182 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, (Group EXEL to Group PATH! Voiced Leanne at ROHD.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 10:27 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved:Wed 09 February 2000 10:27

have voiced DB @ the Ip2 team & also Geoff Coxon @ the TVC. Geof will look intd this issue 7 will return my call. LG.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 10:28 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:28

Call # E-0002090182 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group TVC Awaiting response from Geoff @ the TVC. LG.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:07 by EXLO01/ EXEL ‘Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:11

Call #E-0002080182 was Reessigned rom Group TVC to Group PATH Installer confirms problem now resolved, instal!

proceeding.
Information Wed 09 February 2000 11:27 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:27

Have voiced Anne @ Exel :- Please confirm that the install is continuing
ICLOSE — Wed 09 February 2000 13:01 by uk056391 / PATHt Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:01

Call Close by David Craggs: Call closed

IS

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqgWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call

FP NONMONIL? aan
wes

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002090089 Page I of I
EER pathway NR2 Archives.a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS = patenqweb 21/06/00 HOT
Call E-0002090089 1999101
Staius:IClosed ‘Opened: I Wed 09 February 2000 09:32 Site:] 153405
Severity:I4.A ‘Closed:IWed 09 February 2000 16:32 Customer: I1039
Priority:[90 CSAVTeam:]uk056391 / path
Caller Details
Catter:[Patsy at exel Phone] GRO, Site.) 153405
Ti Login Gepartment:
Caller 1D: Location:
Cail Problem Detaiis
Product] Gall Type:]¥ ProbType:]IMO7 Probiem:

Type!
Problem] 163405 Cleveleys &-0002090089. ISDN fault. When actioned the tests the installer get the engaged tone which is ok but
Text:} getting a message which reads “clear cause 88".

Cali Closure Details

Closed: [09/02/00 16:32 I Cause:[ce1 I _RepairJroo I Resolution [RSO8
Text:I Call Close by David Crags: Exel confirm HWA. Calll closed

Cail Asset Detai's

Asset ID:) Description: Serial No:
Product: [unknown product Description: I Unknown Product Network 1D;
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 09 February 2000 09:30 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:32

New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090089. ISDN fault. When actioned the tests the installer get
the engaged tone which is ok but getting a message which reads “clear cause 88".

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 09:35 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:35
Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, Group EXEL to Group PATH1 Voiced Leanne at ROHD.

Information Wed 09 February 2000 09:31 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:31
have voiced DB @ the Ip2 team of this issue & also Satish Mistry. lg.

REASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 09:34 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:34
Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group PATH! to Group TVC awaiting response fromSatish. LG

Information Wed 09 February 2000 09:51 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 09:51
have spoken to Geoff @ The TVC - he will look inot this isue& advise further. LG.

Information Wed 09 February 2000 10:24 by EXLO0S/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:24
Spoke othe installer he informed me thatthe ISON is wired up toa telephone point which is also used for a credit card
reader.

Information Wed 09 February 2000 10:43 by uk0S6681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 10:43
Have advised Geott Coxon @ the TVC of exel's last update. He will pass this over to Satish. LG.

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:12 by EXLOO1 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:13

Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group PATH Installer confirms that problem now resolved,
install continuing.

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 11:26 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 11:27
Call # E-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group PATHI to Group EXEL have voiced this call to Anne @ exel - please
confirm the install is continuing,

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 16:38 by EXLO06 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:38
Call # €-0002090089 was Reassigned from Group EXEL to Group patht Install now complete
CLOSE Wed 09 February 2000 16:32 by uk056391 / path1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:32

Call Close by David Craggs: Exel confirm HWA. Call closed

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=E-0002090089 DINK INN
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002090708 Page I of I

EES pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 43E

Call E-0002090708 ©1999,1CL

Closed Opened:I Wed 09 February 2000 15:09 Site: 153405
Severity:]4 A Closed:]Wed 09 February 2000 15:26 Customer: 1039
Pricrity:]88 CSA/Team: I uk056681 / patht
Caller Details

Caller:Janne at exel Phone: ite:] 153405
Title? Logia:
Caller iD!
Call Provlem Details
Product Type:] I Gall fype]Y I ProbType:] M07 I

Problem Text:I e-0002090708 153405 cleveleys. exel confirm that they have hardware acceptance at this site at 14.45

Call Closure Details
Closed: ] 09/02/00 15:26 [ Cause[cs1 I Repair [Roo I Resi
Text:I Call Close by Leanne Gordon: Call closed by LG.
Call Asset Details

pon:] S08

Asset ID:
Product: [unknown product : [Unknown Product II
Call Activity Log
JOPEN Wed 09 February 2000 15:02 by EXLO09/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:09

New call taken by Jeanette Pritchard: e-0002090708 153405 cleveleys. exel confirm that they have hardware acceptanceI
at this site at 14,45

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 15:16 by EXLO09/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:19

Call # £-0002090708 was Reassigned from Jeanette Pritchard, Group EXEL to Group patht voice prompt to leanne
information Wed 09 February 2000 15:25 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:25

RODB has been updated.
CLOSE —_ Wed 09 February 2000 15:26 by uk056681 / patht Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 15:26

Call Close by Leanne Gordon: Call closed by LG.

Ibo -

http://pwavweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallNetails asn?Call=F-ANNINAN7OR DiEMewn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002091220 Page 1 of I
(CERES pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 HE
Call E-0002091220 @1999,1CL

{Closed Opened: IWed 09 February 2000 21:57 1 153405,
4A Closed: IWed 09 February 2000 21:59 41039

7 :}ukcon001 / PATH1

Caller:I HSFO-
Title:

I 153405,

Cail Provlem Details
ProbType:I IMO7- Prodlem:I

=<

Cail Type!

Problem] 153405 - CLEVEL!
‘Text:] Davelin tel:

0002091220 - HFSO has advised that she can't find the Postal order section, hiso on site is

Call Closure Cstails
Ciosed:[09/02/00 21:59 [ Cause:fcs1 Repai[Roo I Resokstion [RSO8
Text:I Call Close by ben ramduny: closure criteria: the te advised issue resolved straight away

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset ID: Description:
Product: [unknown product Description: I Unknown Product
Cali Activity Log
JOPEN Wed 09 February 2000 21:54 by ukcon001 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 21:57

New call taken by ben ramduny: 153405 - CLEVELEYS - E0002091220 - HFSO has advised that she can't find the Postal
order section, hfso on site is Davelin tel: [

ICLOSE Wed 09 February 2000 21:59 by ukcon001 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 21:59
Call Close by ben ramduny: closure criteria: the te advised issue resolved straight away

Io! —

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails asn?Cati=F-0007N0 1990 ane inn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002100075 Page I of I

BEREAM pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 #€>L
Call E-0002100075 ©1999 ICL
Status: [Closed Opened: [Thu 10 February 2000 09:01 Sitar] 153405
Severity: Closed: I Thu 10 February 2000 1120 Customer] 1039

Priority:I77

CSR/Team:} uk056501 / PATH1

POCL fax ref:- Ip2/18119AN GRO 7 Site:] 153405.

Lagi Deparim
Caller if Location:
Call Problem Detaiis
Product Type:) I Cai Type]Y I ProbType:]IM07 I Problem:]
Problem Text:I 153405 CLEVELEYS. POCL fax ref:- 1P2/18119 AN. Migration was completed successfully @ 22.40 on 03/02/00.

Cali Closure Details
Closed: ] 10/02/00 11:20 I Cause:[ca1__ I Repair:[RO9 I
Text:I Call Close by Jane Underwood: Call closed.
Cail Asset Details
Description;
1: Unknown Product

Resolution: IRSO8

Asset ID:
Prod

Serial No

lunknown product

all Activity Lo%
IOPEN —Thu 10 February 2000 09:00 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:01

New call taken by Leanne Gordon: 153405 CLEVELEYS. POCL fax ref:- IP2/18119 AN. Migration was completed
successfully @ 22.40 on 09/02/00.

Information Thu 10 February 2000 09:03 by uk056681 / PATH1
RODB has been updated.
IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 09:03 by uk056681 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:04

Call # E-0002100075 was Reassigned from Leanne Gordon, Group PATH1 to Group SMC3 Routing call for information.
This site is now operational.

Information Thu 10 February 2000 10:39 by uk061353 / SMC1
SMC accept this PO as live, all counters unsuspended.

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 10:39 by uk061353 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:39
Cail # E-0002100075 was Reassigned from Group SMC3 to Group PATH1

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 11:20 by uk056501 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 11:20
Call # E-0002100075 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Jane Underwood, Group PATH1

CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 11:20 by uk056501 / PATH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 11:20
Call Close by Jane Underwood: Call closed.

Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:03

Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:39

(62 .

httn-//nwavweh1 /PatRnaWehNrR7/CallNataite sen2Call—P ANNI 1ANATE
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002100138

Page I of I
EESERAM pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 XSL
Call E-0002100138 ©1999 ICL
Status:IClosed Opened:}I Thu 10 February 2000 09:26 Site: ] 153405
Severity:I2 C Closed:IThu 10 February 2000 09:30 Customer: }1039
au CSR/Team:Iuk079701 / HSH1
Cailer:] Mrs Davlyn Phone:I Site. [153405
Title: I HFSO Logi Department:
Caller ID: Location:
Cail Problem Detaiis
Product Call Type:IO. ProbType:I OD02 Problem:
Type

Pr

[(PMis called Julie Woolstonhulme) - Only gone live this morning. One of the clerks has tried to sell Orange £5.00 phone
:Icard worried because icon says coming soon.

Cali Closure Details
Crosed:[ 10/02/00 09:30 [ Cause[cat Repair:[Roo I :
Text:I Call Close by Lyndsey Eliot: HFSO happy with advise - now has a second query to be logged seperately.

Cail Asset Detaits
Assat iD: Description, Soriai No:
Product:[eposs Description: Network 1D:
Cal Activity Log I
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 09:24 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:26

New call taken by Lpndsey Elliot: (PM is called Julie Woolstonhulme) - Only gone live this morning. One of the clerks has
tried to sell Orange £5.00 phone card worried because icon says coming soon.

IAdvice Thu 10 February 2000 09:29 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:29
Advised her that this is finre that the icon design is coming scon - the actual icon works fine. HFSO completed transaction.
ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 09:30 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:30

Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: HFSO happy with advise - now has a second query to be logged seperately.

Ib

http://pwayweb01 /PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails asn?Call=F-0007 100128 nein
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0002100143

Page I of I

EEN pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 #3
Call E-0002100143 ©1999 16.
Status:[Closed Opened] Thu 10 February 2000 09:31 Site:]153405
Severity:I2C Closed:I Thu 10 February 2000 09:37 Customer: [1039
Priority:[0 ‘CSR/Team:[uk079701 / HSH1
Caller Details I
Caller: Mrs Devlyn Phone: Site: [153405
Title: HFSO. Login’ Department
Caller 1D: Location:
Cail Problem Detait
Product Type!) I Cali TypeJA I ProbType:[AD12 I Pro
Problem Text:I logged at same time as 138 of today. One of the clerks tried to log on this morning - now locked out - user error.
Call Closure Detaits
Closed] 10/02/00 09:37 I Cause:[ces I Jaa Resolution: I RSO8
Text:

Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Once I had navigated PM to the correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I

asked how long ago he was locked out and she said 50mins - Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15
min

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset ID: Description: Serial No:

Product:I ADMIN Descripticn:] ADMIN Network iD:

JOPEN

Advice

CLOSE

MODIFY Thu 10 February 2000 10:30 by uk059697 / HSH1

Call Aciivity Log I
Thu 10 February 2000 09:29 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:31

New call taken by Lyndsey Elliot: logged at same time as 138 of today. One of the clerks tried to log on this morning - now
locked out - user error.

Thu 10 February 2000 09:32 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:32

Navigated PM Julie Woolstonhulme through unlocking user. He has been serving on her id while they have been awaitning
him being unlocked. Had to wait while he finished serving before I could relay advice. Once I had navigated PM to the
correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I asked how long ago he was locked out and she said SOmins -
Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15 mins. PM happy with this. Asked her to make sure he is slow
and careful when logging back on.

Thu 10 February 2000 09:37 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 09:37

Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Once I had navigated PM to the correct icon - she informed me that it would not work then I
asked how long ago he was locked out and she said 50mins - Informed her it will have automatically unlocked after about 15I
mins. PM happy with this. Asked her to make sure he is slow and careful when logging back on. PMHTC.

Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:30
Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Product !D: from ‘eposs' to ‘ADMIN’ Prod. Descr.: from " to "ADMIN"

[bY -

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp? Call=E-0002 100143 DINKIAN
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0002100198 Page I of I

EESEAMpathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 OL

Call E-0002100198 ©1999 ICL
Status: [Closed Opened: I Thu 10 February 2000 10:09 ie: ] 153405
Severity:[1 D Closedi:[ Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 Customer:I 1039
Priority:[0 CSR/Team:} uk056389 / HSH1
Caiter:[julie Phe 53405
Title: I PostMaster Login: Department
Caller 1D: Loca

Cail Problem Detaiis
ProbType:] xI05

Product
Type:
Problem I gateway - blue screen - restart and set recovery optiuons - crash debug - stop 0x0000000a (0x000000086 0x000000ft -

Text:I the line to caller then went dead

Call Closure Details
Closed] 10/02/00 10:12 I Causef[cat I _Repaicfros I

Text:I Call Close by Nicola Platt: whilst taking details - line to caller went dead - call ok to close
Cail Asset Detai's

Resotution [RSO8

Asset
Produci:I Unknown Product

Unknown Product

JOPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:07 by uk056389/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:09
New call taken by Nicola Platt: gateway - blue screen - restart and set recovery optiuons - crash debug - stop 0x0000000a)
(0x000000086 0x000000# - the line to caller then went dead
information Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 by uk0S6389 / HSH1

whilst taking details - line to caller went dead

ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 10:12 by uk056389/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:12
Call Close by Nicola Platt: whilst taking details - fine to caller went dead - call ok to close

Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:12

htto://nwavweb01 /PatEnaWehNR7/CallNetaile senIAoN=R AANITANTOS
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002100219 Page i of 1
EESIS@S# pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #7.
Call E-0002100219 ©1999 ICL
Status: {Closed Opened:IThu 10 February 2000 10:16. Site:] 153405
Severity:I2 C Closed: I Thu 10 February 2000 10:25 Customer: I1039

Priority:I0 CSR/Teamn: I uk064675/ HSH1
Caller
Catter:I Julie Walstonholm Phone: GRO I Site:I 153405
Title: I PostMaster Login:} Department:
Caller 10: Location:
Cail Problem Detaits
oduct Cai Type]s I ProbType:]SD02 L

Problem Text:]On the gateway the screen has gone blue with a message that starts Stop 0x0000000a.

Calt Closure Details

Closed:] 10/02/00 10:25 I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Ros I

Text: Call Close by Stuart Bygrave: Blue screen and stop error message. Advised to reboot.

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset 1D; Sefal No:
Product:I EPOSS Network 19;
Cali Activity Log
[OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:13 by uk064675 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:16
New call taken by Stuart Bygrave: On the gateway the screen has gone blue with a message that starts Stop 0x0000000a.
Advice Thu 10 February 2000 10:20 by uk064675 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:20
Advised pm how to reboot the system.
ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 10:25 by uk064675/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:25
Call Close by Stuart Bygrave: Blue screen and stop error message. Advised to reboot.
httn-//nwavweh0 1 /PatEnaWehNR?/CallNetaile acn?Cali=R_ANN7 100910 ainrinn

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002100289 Page I oft

ESTERS pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00. {CL
Call E-0002100289 ©1999 ICL

Status:IClosed Opened:IThu 10 February 2000 10:48. Site:] 153405

Severity:[3 B Closed: [Thu 10 February 2000 10:57 Customer: [1039
Pririty:[0 CSRVTeain:I uk066996/ HSHT
Caller Det
Cailer:IMrs Davlyn Phone} GRO} Site:] 153405
Title: [HFSO_ Login’ Department:

Caller 1D: Lecation:I

Call Provlem Detaifs
Cail Typey]S Prob)

:I SDO2

ProblemIPm reports that the barcode scanner and the swipe card reader are not operational. Pm reports that a a clerk was
‘Text:] entering a barcoded bt bill and she entered the amount and then she accidentally pressed the reciept key and it printed a
reciept for a previous customer.

Cali Closure Details
[Ctosed:] 10/02/00 10:57 ] Cause]o21 I Repair]Roa I Resolution: I RSOB

Text:I Call Close by Matthew Taylor. Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the transaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru.
they have the transaction details. advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

Cail Asset Details

Asset ID: Description: Serial No:
Product: PATWAL3400BCR Description Network iD:
D Calt Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 10:42 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:48

New call taken by Matthew Taylor: Pm reports that the barcode scanner and the swipe card reader are not operational. Pm
reports that a a clerk was entering a barcoded bt bill and she entered the amount and then she accidentally pressed the
reciept key and it printed a reciept for a previous customer.

Advice Thu 10 February 2000 10:54 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:54
Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the transaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru. they have the transaction details.
advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 10:57 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 10:57
Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Advised pm to print a ap report to see it the transaction has gone thru. it had not gone thru.
they have the transaction details. advised pm Hard reboot counter 3. navigated pm thru rebooting.

Ik ;

htto://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallNetails asn?Call=F_NNN7 1ANIeO As iain
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002100508 Page I of I

EXERT pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 HL
Call E-0002100508 ©1999 ICL
Status: I Closed Opened: Thu 10 February 2000 13:00 Site] 153405
Severiy:]3 8 Claseck I Thu 10 February 2000 13:03 Customer-[1039
Prroity:[0 CSA/Teain: [uk079762/ HSH

Caller:IMr Harrison

i Site:] 153405
Title: I PostMaster

Cal

Cail Provlem Detaits
Product Type] I CaiTypeIs I ProbType:]SD02 I Problem:]
Problem Text:I PM was ringing to say that the system keeps on crashing and has STOP 0X0000000A message.
Cal Closure Details
Closed] 10/02/00 13:03 I Cause[cor I Repai:[Roo I Resolution:IRS08
Text:] Call Close by Anthony Leddra: PM cut off due to bad line.

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset 'D: Description:I
Product: [WINNT Description:I Windows NT
Call Activity Log

JOPEN Thu 10 February 2000 12:57 by uk079782 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:00

‘New call taken by Anthony Leddra: PM was ringing to say that the system keeps on crashing and has STOP 0X0000000A

message. .
ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 13:03 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:03

Call Close by Anthony Leddra: PM cut off due to bad line.
MODIFY Thu 10 February 2000 13:15 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:16

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from 'H' to 'S' Product !D: from ‘PATICLX365/400C’' to ‘WINNT’
Prod. Descr.: from ‘Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites’ to ‘Windows NT’ Problem Type: from 'HDO1' to ‘SD02"

163

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asn? Call=F-(1N07 10808 Tne nn
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002100514 lof 1
EESIRA¥ pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #3
Call E-0002100514 ©1999 ICL
Status:IClosed ‘Opened:I Thu 10 February 2000 13:04 153405
[2c Closed: I Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 Customer: 1039
Jo CSAvTeamn: I uk079964/ HSH
Caller Details
=]Mr Harrison Site:] 153405
: I PostMaster Logins} Departmen
Calter 1D;
Call Problem Details
Product Ty} L Call Type]x I ProbType:]XI05 LC Problem]
Problem Text: [PM called regarding the gateway crashing, he started telling me what was on the screen but the line cut off.
Cali Clesure Details
Closed] 10/02/00 13:11 [_casecor [Repairfrio I n:] RSOB
Text:I Call Close by Sangita Patel: PM got cut off.
Cail Asset Detaiis,
Asset iD:I Seria No:I
Product:I Unknown Product Network 1D:
Call Activity Log
OPEN. Thu 10 February 2000 12:57 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:04
New call taken by Sangia Patel: PM cae regaring the gateway crashing, he state teting me what was onthe screen but
lAdvice Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:11
Line cut off.
CLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 13:11 by uk079964/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:11
Call Close by Sangita Patel: PM got cut off.

104

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Cali=F-0007 11S 1.4 ay incinn
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0002 100523

Page I of i

SCEEEE pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PalNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 OL
Call E-0002100523

Status:]Closed ‘Opened: [Thu 10 February 2000 1 153405
Severity:I3 B Closed:I Thu 10 February 2000 15:07 Customer:]1039

Priority:]0 CSRéTearn:Iuk061356 / SMC1

©1999 ICL

Caller Details

Caller:]Mr Harrison Phone:I
Title: IPostMaster Login:}
ID:

153405

Cail Problem Detaiis

Product Cail Type:]S ProbType:IFEOS:
Type:

plem:

ProbiemI reporting gateway counter has blue screen message &quot;stop...0x0000000a)

Text: I 0x0000029b ,0x000000ff,0x00000000,0x80846de88quot; has already happened twice this morning and have rebooted
[system - happy to reboot again but would like the cause explaining/investigating.
Cait Clesure Details
Closed: [10/02/00 15:07 [ Cause:[c21 I Repair[Roa I

Text: Call Close by Anthony Obi: NT blue screen - counter re-booted problem resolved closure agreed.
Call Asset Detai
Asset iD: Description:
Product: EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Ni
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 10 February 2000 13:04 by uk066744 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:09

New call taken by Matthew Titcombe: reporting gateway counter has blue screen message "stop..0x0000000a)
0x0000029b ,0x000000ff,0x00000000,0x80846dc6" has already happened twice this morning and have rebooted
‘system - happy to reboot again but would like the cause explaining/investigating.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 10 February 2000 13:10 by uk066744/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:10

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 13:15 by uk066744 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 13:15

Call # E-0002100523 was Reassigned from Matthew Titcombe, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassigning call tor
progression

IREASSIGN Thu 10 February 2000 15:00 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:00
Call # E-0002100523 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Anthony Obi, Group SMC1
information Thu 10 February 2000 15:01 by UK061356/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:01

Counter has been re-booted twice - it is now working fine. PM stated it has gone down 3 times since but as it is
working now he agreed closure of call.

ICLOSE Thu 10 February 2000 15:07 by uk061356 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 10 February 2000 15:07
Call Close by Anthony Obi: NT blue screen - counter re-booted problem resolved closure agreed.

Seral No:
ork 1D:

0002100573 TINK INN
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002090461 Page I of I
ESTEEM pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 OL
Call E-0002090461 ©1999 ICL
Status: [Closed ‘Opened: ] Wed 09 February 2000 13:26 I 153405
Severity:I4A Closed: Fri 11 February 2000 16:01 1039
Pricrity:]90 [uk056500/ patht
Caller Details
Caller: [Patsy at exel Phones} Sie:] 153405
Title: Logins!
Galler 107

Gail Problem Detalis
Product Type] [_ Cat TypeY I ProbType:]IMO7_ ] Provl
Problem Text:I 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090461. Counter 3 stuck at 20%, 1113 error.

Cali Closure Details

Closed] 11/02/00 16:01 I Cause[ce1 I Repair[Roo I Resolution: [RSO8
Text:I Call Close by Stuart Woodhouse: Calll closed by SW
Call Asset Det:
Asset 1D: Description: Serial No}
Product: unknown product Deseription:] Unknown Product Network [22:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 09 February 2000 13:24 by EXLOO6 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:26
New call taken by Patsy Wing: 153405 Cleveleys E-0002090461. Counter 3 stuck at 202%, 1113 error.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:31 by EXLO06/ EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:32
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Patsy Wing, Group EXEL to Group PATH! Voiced Andrew at ROHD.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:38 by uk056140/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:38
Call # £-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group TVG routing for investigation
Information Wed 09 February 2000 13:39 by uk056140/ PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:39
have voiced GC@TVC to this call.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:43 by uk506480 / TVC Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:44
Call # €-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group PATH! Please swop out counter 3.
information Wed 09 February 2000 13:45 by uk056682 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:45
Passing over to Excel Swap authorised, Please pass call back for progression. lan
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 13:46 by uk056682 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:46
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group EXEL
Information Wed 09 February 2000 13:53 by EXLOO1 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 13:53.
Installer informed of swap out counter 3 - will send DOA no. when I get it.
IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 14:08 by EXLOO1 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 14:09
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group EXEL to Group PATH! DOA serial no: 000206404.
REASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 14:44 by EXLOO6 / EXEL Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 14:45

Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group PATHt Sorry wrong serial number of DOA was
given. The correct one is 000208754.

IREASSIGN Wed 09 February 2000 16:34 by uk056391 / PATH1 Saved: Wed 09 February 2000 16:34
Call # £-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group PATH1 to Group TVC Routing to TVC for diagnosis and closure.
information Fri 11 February 2000 15:06 by uk079510 / TVG Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 15:06.
Download error. To be recycled, Please cliose call.
IREASSIGN Fri 11 February 2000 15:07 by uk079510/ TVG Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 15:07
Call # E-0002090461 was Reassigned from Group TVC to Group patht Download error. To be recycled, Please close
call.
CLOSE Fri 11 February 2000 16:01 by uk056500/ patht Saved: Fri 11 February 2000 16:01

Call Close by Stuart Woodhouse: Call closed by SW

(+) ~

http://pwayweb0 I /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal!=B-9002090461 21/06/00
Cali Details E-0002190086

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Page i of I

RENE pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #E
Call E-0002190086 ©1999 CL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: ISat 19 February 2000 09:57 Site:] 153405
Severity:[2C ‘Closed:I Sat 19 February 2000 10:00 ‘Customer: ]1039
Priority:{0 CSR/Team:Iuk079783 / HSH1
Calier:[Mr Harrison Phone:ft -]153405
Title: PostMaster Login!
Catiar 1D:

Call Problem Detaits

Product Type:] PTO1 i Call Type]A_]

Problem Text:}A clerk has locked himself out of the system.

Call Closure Details

Ctosed:] 19/02/00 10:00 ] I

ion:[RSOB

Text:I Call Close by Andrew Titman: PM happy with the advice and HTCC.

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset ID:

Descript

Serial No:

Proguct:I ADMIN Deserip: ‘DMIN
Call Activity Log
OPEN —_Sat 19 February 2000 09:56 by uk079783 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 09:57
New call taken by Andrew Titman: A clerk has locked himself out of the system.
IAdvice ‘Sat 19 February 2000 09:59 by uk079783 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 09:59
Advised the PM'to go into admin, user, modify user and to unlock the account.
CLOSE Sat 19 February 2000 10:00 by uk079783 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 19 February 2000 10:00

Call Close by Andrew Titman: PM happy with the advice and HTCC.

Network iD I

2

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal

0002190086

21/06/00
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002220353 Page I of I

(EERERAW pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOQHSHO5 ~—patenqweb 21/08/00 #31
Call E-0002220353 ©1999 ICL
Status:]Closed ‘Opened: I Tue 22 February 2000 11:52 Site:]153405
Severity:[1 D Closed: I Tue 22 February 2000 11:56 Customer: 1039
Priorty:[0 CSR/Team:Iuk079702/ HSH1
Caller Detaiis
Caiter:I Margaret Phone: H ‘Site:} 153405
Titte:I PostMaster Login: Department:
Caller 1D:] Location:

Call Problem De
Product Type:I PTO1 J Call Type]x I
Probiem Text:I PM is calling rprt that she has entered an incorrect amt onto the quantum machine

Cali Closure Details

I 22/02/00 11:56 I Cause[car__I Repair:[RO9_ I
:I[ Call Close by Jamie Lee: pmhtc.

ition: [RSOB

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset iD: Description: Serial No:
Product: IEPOSS. Description: [EPOSS Network 10:
Call Activity Log

JOPEN Tue 22 February 2000 11:47 by uk079702/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 22 February 2000 11:52

New call taken by Jamie Lee: PM is calling rprt that she has entered an incorrect amt onto the quantum machine
ICLOSE Tue 22 February 2900 11:56 by uk079702/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 22 February 2000 11:56
Call Close by Jamie Lee: pmhtc.

Ves

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=R-000772353 J1INKINA
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002241008 Page I of I
EEEXERSM pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PaINR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwebd 21/06/00 #CL
Call E-0002241008 ©1999 10
Status: [closed Opened: I Thu 24 February 2000 15:59 ite] 158405
Severity:I2 6 Closed: I Thu 24 February 2000 16:01 Customer) 1039
Proriy:}0 CSRiTeam: I uk079868/ HSH

Caller Detaiis

Caiier:Imr harrison Phone: i 153405
Title: IPostMaster Login: :
Caller 1D: Location,
Call Problem Details
Product Type:I _[ Cali Type [A_ I ProbTyps:[AD14 it

Problem Text [pm has a problem

Call Closure Details
Closed:]24/02/00 16:01 I Cause[ca1 I Repair Roo I
Text:I Call Close by Nicola Harrison: pm happy to close the call,
Call Asset Detal's

Asset ID: Description’
Product: IPATICLX365/400B }escription:I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network iD
Call Activity Log

OPEN Thu 24 February 2000 15:57 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 15:59
New call taken by Nicola Harrison: pm has a problem

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 24 February 2000 15:59 by ukO79868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 15:59
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice ‘Thu 24 February 2000 16:00 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:00
pmis advising us that he has re...ooted the system and that it is working ok now.

IcLose ‘Thu 24 February 2000 16:01 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:01
Call Close by Nicola Harrison: pm happy to close the call,

MODIFY Thu 24 February 2000 18:55 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 18:55

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from 'O' to 'A’ Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to
"PATICLX365/400B' Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' Problem Type: from 'FEQS' to ‘AD 14’ Product Type: from 'PTO1" to

Vy.

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=

E-0002241008 21/06/00
Zw

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0002290031 Page 1 of I
(ERTS pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 XSL
Call E-0002290031 1999 ct
Status: Closed Opened: Tue 29 February 2000 08:49 Sites] 153405
Severity:I20 Closed: Tue 29 February 2000 08:53 Customer] 1039
Prioriy:0 CSAVTeain: uk079930/ HSH1
Caller Details
Calier-[Mr Harrison Phone: Site] 153405
Title:I PostMaster Login: Dapartines

Calter ID:

Cail Problem Detaiis

OPEN Tue 29 February 2000 08:45 by uk079939 / HSH1

JAdvice Tue 29 February 2000 08:52 by uk079939/ HSH
Advised a re-boot of the gateway

CLOSE Tue 29 February 2000 08:53 by uk079939// HSHt
Call Close by Paul Fitzpatrick: PMHTCC.

IMODIFY Tue 29 February 2000 09:32 by uk059697 / HSH1

Product Type] I Cal TypeIS I PrabType:]SD02 I
Problem Text:I Gateway has on screen 00000000A,
Cali Closure Details
Closed: ] 29/02/00 08:53 I Cause:]c22_—_ I Repair:]Ro4 I Resoilution:[ RS08
Text:I Call Close by Paul Fitzpatrick: PMHTCC.
Call Asset Detai
Asset iD: Description:
Product: [EPOSS, Description: I EPOSS
Call Activity Log

New call taken by Paul Fitzpatrick: Gateway has on screen 00000000A

Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Call Type: from ‘A’ to 'S’ Cause: from 'C62" to 'C22" Product ID: from ‘Eposs’
to 'EPOSS' Severity: from '1' to '2' Prod. Descr.: from " to 'EPOSS' ...etc.

Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:49
Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:52
Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 08:53

Saved: Tue 29 February 2000 09:33

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal

-0002290031 21/06/00
~.

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details -UUUZZ4U009 Page I of 2

ESEEZAS pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PaINR2 on STEOSHSHO5 —patenqweb 21/08/00 OL
Call E-0002240009 @1999,1CL
Status: [Closed ‘Opened: Thu 24 February 2000 08:05 Site:] 153405
Severity:I3 8 Closed:IWed 01 March 2000 18:17 Gustomer: [1039
Priority:[0 ‘GSAT eam: uk05903 / SMC1

Cali
Tit

"]Mrs Tagg Phone]
Login:
Caller 0:

153405

Call Problem Detaiis

Product} Galt Type:IS ProbType:I SD02 Problem:
‘Type:

Problem I Couldn't print due to a session being suspended last night, has rolled su & the office into the next week. Rebooted to
Text:I clear the problem.

Cali Closure Details

Giosed-]01/03/00 18:17 _I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Ros I Resolution: [RSO8
Text.I Call Close by Dave Smith: Engineer is going to site to swap out the counter anyway and PM has agreed closure of this call.
Cail Asset Details

Asset ID;] Description: Serial No:
Product: [EPOSS Description: fwark ID?
a
Call Activity Log I
OPEN Thu 24 February 2000 08:02 by uk066862/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:05

New call taken by Andrew Abernethy: Couldn't print due to a session being suspended last night, has rolled su &
the office into the next week. Rebooted to clear the problem.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 24 February 2000 08:06 by uk066862/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:06
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Thu 24 February 2000 08:08 by uk066862/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:08

She would tke this investigated asthe gateway needs rebooting about 3 or 4 times a week as itkeeps
freezing....can't touch anything on the screen (no hour glass spinning).

IREASSIGN —Thu 24 February 2000 08:10 by uk066862 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 08:11
Call # E-0002240009 was Reassigned from Andrew Abernethy, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigned for
investigation.

Information ‘Thu 24 February 2000 16:12 by UK061824 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:12
forwarding for investiagtion - Event Logs obtained (26801), counter has current prod list.

IREASSIGN —Thu 24 February 2000 16:15 by UK061824/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 24 February 2000 16:16
Call # E-0002240009 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 for investigation

Repeat Call Fri 25 February 2000 17:11 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:11

PMis still having problems with the gateway. PM called to advise that the magnetic card reader and the barcode
stopped working today. Pm solved the problem by logging out then logging back into the system. Pm cannot
remember what the magnetic card was but the barcoded bill was a BT bill. PM also informed me that the gateway
was rebooted yesterday, and twice on wednesday (screen froze - no egg timer movement - during a balancing)

IAdvice Fri 25 February 2000 17:16 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:16
Advised PM this matter was with third line support now and someone will get back in touch with him
UPDATE Fri 25 February 2000 17:16 by PINICL / Saved: Fri 25 February 2000 17:16

7 By Catherine Obeng at 25-feb-2000 17:17:00 Catégory 40 - Incident Under Investigation The PM confirmed to me

that the system turns to hang they the are trying to print a Giro Report. Further analysis will be carried out next
week.

UPDATE Wed 01 March 2000 14:08 by PINICL/ Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 14:08

By Catherine Obeng at 01-mar-2000 14:06:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation I spoke to Julie and told

her that I will be ringing her back at 5:30 when they are doing their CA so that I can collect PSTAT into from counter
1 for analysis.

JOTLCLOSE —_ Wed 01 March 2000 17:53 by PINICL/ Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:53
NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Catherine Obeng at 01-mar-2000 17:53:00 Category 96 - Insufficient evidence I called the office to advise that I
was about to run a PSTAT at counter 1 to collect more evidence about the slowness of counter 1. But the PM told
me that she has had an Engineer on site to swap counter 1 base unit, that swap did not work and so the Engineer
is gone away to get a second box. To that effect, I advised her that I would close this call to which she agreed.

REASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 17:53 by PINICL/ Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:53
OT! monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UKO61824 (SMC1)

IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 01 March 2000 18:16 by uk059303/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:16
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-9002240009 21/06/00

POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0002240009 Paye 2 of 2

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 18:16 by uk059303 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:17
Cail # E-0002240009 was Reassigned from Mark Foster, Group SMC1 to Dave Smith, Group SMC1 Re-Assigning
for closure.

ICLOSE Wed 01 March 2000 18:17 by uk059303 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 18:17
Call Close by Dave Smith: Engineer is going to site to swap out the counter anyway and PM has agreed closure of
this call.

This call has remarks

Pe -

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0002240009 21/06/00
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003010031 Page I of 2
{EEREREGM pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #7
Call E-0003010031 ©1999.1CL
[Closed ‘Opened: I Wed 01 March 2000 08:37 Site:] 153405
BED Closed: I Thu 02 March 2000 16:17 Customer: [1039
Prority:]0 [uk061815/ SMG1
Caller Det
Caller] Mr Harrison Phone: Site] 153405
Title: I[PostMaster Login: Deparment
Caiier ID: Location:
Tall Problem Details
Product Cal Type:]H Proutype[HDO1 Problem:
Type:

ProbiemI PM is having problems with gateway - PM has come in this morning, and it has bluescreen with a Stop code ending with
Text:I0x00..0A. PM has now reboot.

Call Closure Details
‘Giosed: [02/03/00 16:17 [causer[iaiure Repairfe2t I Resoluti
Text:I Call Close by Daniel Sales: ** [No Remark entered.] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

-[RS10

Call Asset Detail

Asset 1D:]1534051 :]Mutti Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Serial No:] 79503CY
Product:I PATICLX365/400B ion: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network ID;
Call Activity Loa .
IOPEN Wed 01 March 2000 08:35 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:37

New call taken by Simon Gavin: PM is having problems with gateway - PM has come in this morning, and it has
bluescreen with a Stop code ending with 0x00..0A. PM has now reboot.

Information Wed 01 March 2000 08:40 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:40
This is not the find time it has happened, the last time being yesterday.
IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 08:41 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 08:41

Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning to SMC as this is a
re-occuring problem for this counter.

MODIFY Wed 01 March 2000 09:02 by uk059697 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 09:02
Call information modified by Sandra Jane Clegg Problem Type: from 'SCOS' to ‘SD01"
IAdvice Wed 01 March 2000 10:55 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 10:55

pm reporting that the gateway has crashed again whilst taking a pension. message ***stop 0x00000000a. as pm has
already rebooted advised pm that I would contact sme. before advising a reboot. pm has already turned gateway off. tried
twice to get through to sme but no answer therefore advised pm off reference no. and that I would re assign the call

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 11:00 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 11:01
Call # £-0003010031 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group SMC1 re assigning for further investigation
Repeat Call Wed 01 March 2000 13:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:36

PM is ringing back re: the same the problem. Hasn't happened again, but PM is still waiting for some kind of answer.
Voiced SMC for make them aware of the problem.

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 13:42 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:42
Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Seema Shah, Group SMC1
Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:42 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:42

Searched the KEL under RColeman2040M.htm- software last sent was 15th Feb. Contacted Richard-and he advised a
Base unit swap as this has happened a few times today

Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:43 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:43
Tried to contact PM but the line is engaged.
Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:52 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:52
Wednesday 9-5.30pm. Thursday 9-5.30pm. Clerk advised that they would like an engineer this afternoon if possible.
MODIFY Wed 01 March 2000 13:44 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:54

Call information modified by Seema Shah Call Type: from 'S' to 'H' Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to 'PATICLX365/400B"
Revision: Serial #: to '79503CY' Tag: to "1534051" Item Descr.: Prod. Descr.: from "EPOSS' ...etc.

Information Wed 01 March 2000 13:55 by uk059133/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:55
Recommend engineer to swap base unit.

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 13:55 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:55
Call # E-0003010031 was Reassigned from Seema Shah, Group SMC1 to Group UKSS1

IREASSIGN Wed 01 March 2000 14:00 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 13:59
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 01-03-2000 15:00:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

JUPOATE — Wed 01 March 2000 14:06 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 14:05

Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 01-03-2000 14:04:00 ** [No Remark entered.]

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000301003 1 21/06/00
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003010031 Page 2 of 2
UPDATE Wed 01 March 2000 15:32 by Dispatch 1/ ‘Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 15:32
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 01-03-2000 15:27:00 ** [Engineer 051286 Logged On}
UPDATE Wed 01 March 2000 16:38 by Dispatch 1/ ‘Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 16:38
Engineer 053315 allocated
ISUSPEND Wed 01 March 2000 17:50 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 01 March 2000 17:50

UPDATE

RELEASE

IREASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 08:30 by Dispatch 1 /

IREASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 10:01 by Dispatch 1/

JUPDATE Thu 02 March 2000 10:15 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 10:13
Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 02-03-2000 10:05:00 ** (No Remark entered}

UPDATE Thu 02 March 2000 11:40 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 11:40
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 02-03-2000 11:35:00 ** [Engineer 051286 Logged On,}

ENG VISIT Thu 02 March 2000 11:30 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 12:30
** [No Remark entered] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821

IREASSIGN Thu 02 March 2000 13:39 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 13:39
OT! monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk059133 (SMC1)

ICLOSE — Thu 02 March 2000 16:17 by uk061815 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 16:17

Call suspended by Jayne Drew SUSPENDING PENDING UPDATE ENG STILL ON SITE

Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:29
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 02-03-2000 11:30:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

Thu 02 March 2000 08:40 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:38
Engineer 064008 allocated

Thu 02 March 2000 08:35 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 08:36

Call released by S. Bothick: releasing for engineer visit. engineer attended 01/03 and had a fof base. PM has requested
we go back in 11.30am today.

Saved: Thu 02 March 2000 10:01
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 02-03-2000 11:25:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

Call Close by Daniel Sales: ** [No Remark entered.] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821 ~

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E.

all has remarks

+9 ;

-9003010031 21/06/00

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003030294 Page I of I
EERE pathway NR2 Archives.a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 HCL
Call E-0003030294 ©1999 10L
Status: [Closed ‘Opened:] Fri 03 March 2000 10:58
Severiy:I2 © Closed:I Fri 03 March 2000 12:17
Priority:I0 SRiTeam:Iuk079674/ HSH
Galler Details
Calier]] Shelley Hatch Phone: fo [153405
Titi] TSA Login: Deparment,
Caller 10; Location:
Call Problem Details
Product Type:I Cali Type]H I ProbType:]HDO1 in

Problem Text: [Call being raised off E-0001310595, as requested, gateway workstation needs to be swapped out.

Call Closure Details
Closed:[09/03/00 12:17 I Cause:[cos Repair[R04 I Resohiticn: I RS10
Text:ICall Close by Shelley Hatch: pm rebooted following engineer visit.call can be closed-gateway is now operational.

Cail Asset Detais

fa ‘Asset 10:[ 1534054 Description: Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites Serial No:[79499YJ
Product:I PATICLX365/400C Description: I Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites work ID:
Call Activity Log

lOPEN Fri 03 March 2000 10:56 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 10:58
New call taken by Shelley Hatch: Call being raised off E-0001310595, as requested, gateway workstation needs to
be swapped out.

Advice Fri 03 March 2000 11:02 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:02
gateway has been swapped out previously and has crashed again since.

Recommend —_Fri 03 March 2000 11:03 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:03
Please swap base unit out-

IREASSIGN Fri 03 March 2000 11:04 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:04
Call # E-0003030294 was Reassigned from Shelley Hatch, Group HSH1 to Group UKSS1 reassigning for engineer
visit.

IREASSIGN Fri 03 March 2000 11:13 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:10
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 03-03-2000 11:15:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 11:22 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:19
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 03-03-2000 11:19:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 11:35 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:32
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 03-03-2000 11:32:00 ** (Engineer 064008 Logged On]

IOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 03 March 2000 11:48 by UK061824 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:52

& Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 12:08 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07
counter working fine after reboot spoke to mark at sme , health check completed.

UPDATE Fri 03 March 2000 12:09 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07
Work completed

ENG VISIT _—_—Fri 03 March 2000 11:32 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:02
counter working fine after reboot spoke to mark at smc , health check completed. Callclosure code of completed
and repair code 827

IREASSIGN —_—Fri 03 March 2000 12:07 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:07
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk079674 (HSH1)

CLOSE Fri 03 March 2000 12:17 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 12:17

Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm rebooted following engineer visit.call can be closed-gateway is now operational.

Igo

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal):

D1/NE/0N
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003030407 Page I of 1
(EEE pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #GL
Call E-0003030407 ©1999 ICL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: Fri 03 March 2000 11:35 :] 153405
Severity:[3 B Closed: I Fri 03 March 2000 11:40 1039
Priority:{0 [uk035390 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caller:I Roger Harrison Phone:}~ Site.]153405
Title: I[PostMaster Login: Department:
Caller 1D:
Cail Provlem Detai
Product Call Type:IS ProbType:I SD02 Problem:
Type;

Problem} Through the transaction and the screen has frozen . and the screen went dead he was entering the OBS foils received in
‘Fext:Iwhen this screen . The right hand bank had now frozen and the PM is not able to clear the screen.

Cat Closure Details

(03/03/00 11:40 I Cause:]c22 I Repair[Roo I Resor

:I Call Close by Pamela Coe: PM will reboot as advised and calll back if the problem persists call can now be closed
Cail Asset Detai!

Asset 1D:
Product: I EPOSS

Sezial No.

Nel

ork ID
Call Activity Log
JOPEN Fri 03 March 2000 11:31 by uk035390/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:35

New call taken by Pamela Coe: Through the transaction and the screen has frozen . and the screen went dead he was

entering the OBS foils received in when this screen . The right hand bank had now frozen and the PM is not able to clear the
screen.

Advice Fri 03 March 2000 11:39 by uk035390 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:39

I advised the PM that he would need to reboot as this has been like this for at least 1/2 hour , He was happy top do this on
his own, Will call back if nessasary

ICLOSE Fri 03 March 2000 11:40 by uk035390 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 03 March 2000 11:40
Call Close by Pamela Coe: PM will reboot as advised and call back if the problem persists call can now be closed

18

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003030407 D17106/00
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003040085 Page I of i
EESTSEAI pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 SL
Call E-0003040085 ©1999 ICL
Status:I Closed ‘Opened’ Sat 04 March 2000 09:43 -] 59405
Severity:I2¢ Closed: I Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 mer) 1039
Priority: [0 SArTeam: I uk059968 / HSHi

Cater:[Mr MA Jackson 153405
Titer Login: Department:
Cailer ID: Lecation:I
Cail Problem Detaiis
Product Type:]PTO1 il Call Type:[A I eT ype:]AD12 [

Problem Text) PM cannot see anything on the screen.

Cali Closure Details
Closed:]04/03/00 09:45 I Cause:[ce2 I Repai[Roo I Resolution: I RSOB
Text:I Call Close by David John Flood: This call can now be closed as the problem has been resolved.
Cail Asset Detaiis

: Description:
: [EPOSS Description: [EPOSS
Activity Log
IOPEN Sat 04 March 2000 09:41 by uk059368/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:43
New call taken by David John Flood: PM cannot see anything on the screen.
[Advice Sat 04 March 2000 09:44 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:44

‘Advised the PM to press the spacebar in case of system in powersave mode. This didnt work. Asked the colour of all lights
on kit. Monitor=orange, keyboard=no light, Base=no light.

IAdvice Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:45
Advised the PM to switch the base on, and get her PMM card and PIN. System now booting up, and all seems OK.
ICLOSE Sat 04 March 2000 09:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 04 March 2000 09:45

Cail Close by David John Flood: This call can now be closed as the problem has been resolved.

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call:

-6003040085 TNBINN
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003070610 Page I of I
CEE pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 OL
Call E-0003070610 ©1999 ICL
Status I Closed ‘OpenedtI Tue 07 March 2000 13:00 [153405
Severiy:}3B Closed: I Tue 07 March 2000 13:05 1039
Priority:}0 juk080011 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caller: Julie Wolstenholme Site] 153405
Title-I PostMaster Department.
Location:
Call Problem Details
vat]PT01 Gall Types ProbType:]SD02 Problem

Screen has frozen twice ( prior to that Clerk was just serving a customer) - Clerk had items in the stack but nothing
happened. Keyboard was unresponsive t00. Clerk logged back in and was instantly in the engineer screen.

Cal Closure Details
Closed:I 07/03/00 13:05 L cause:[o22 Repair:IRoo I
Text:I Call Close by Sayeed Master: PMHTC

Resolution [RS08

Cail Asset Detail

Asset iD: Description: Serial No:
Product:] EPOSS Description: EPOSS Network 1D:
-_______—
Call Activity Log
OPEN =— Tue 07 March 2000 12:56 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:00

New call taken By Sayeed Master: Screen has frozen twice ( prior to that Clerk was just serving a customer) - Clerk had

items in the stack but nothing happened. Keyboard was unresponsive too. Clerk logged back in and was instantly in the
engineer screen.

Information Tue 07 March 2000 13:04 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:04
previous to this the screen has been ok. sytem is working fine now. Hasn't crashed at all.

ICLOSE — Tue 07 March 2000 13:05 by uk080011 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Tue 07 March 2000 13:05
Call Close by Sayeed Master: PMHTC.

http://pwayweb0 I /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal]=E-9003070616 aine inn
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003080446 e loft
RENEE pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 OL
Call E-0003080446 ©1999 ICL
Status:I Closed ‘Opened: [Wed 08 March 2000 11:54 Site:] 153405
Severity:[2C Closed [Wed 08 March 2000 11:56 Customer: 1039
Priority:I 0 CSR eam: [UK061916 / HSHi
Caller Details
Cater [Mr M A Jackson Phone: Sita] 153405,
Login: Department:
Cailer 1D; Location:

Call Problem Detaiis

Product] Cail Type:]Xx ProbT ype: [X05
Type!

Problem I Avril Kirkby Clerk rang to say customer applying for british passport because she’s Polish but born on USSR. Wants to
‘Text:] know about procedural issue with this.

__Call Closure 0:

Closed: [08/03/00 11:56 LCause[car I Repair[R58 I
Text I Call Close by Russell King: Galler ADVISED to contact NBSC - call closed

Call Asset Detais

Asse!
Product: [Unknown Product
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 08 March 2000 11:52 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:54

New call taken by Russell King: Avril Kirkby Clerk rang to say customer applying for british passport because she's
Polish but born on USSR. Wants to know about procedural issue with this

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 11:54 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

{Information Wed 08 March 2000 11:55 by UK061916 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:55
Referred her to NBSC as is purely PO procedural issue.

CLOSE Wed 08 March 2000 11:56 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 11:56

Call Close by Russel! King: Caller ADVISED to contact NBSC - call closed

re “

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003080446 TINK IN
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003080691 Page I of I

(ESEAI pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #OL
Call E-0003080691 ©1999 ICL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: I Wed 08 March 2000 13:40 Site:] 153405
Severity:[2 C Closed: I Wed 08 March 2000 13:47 Customer.) 1039
Priority:[0 CSRTeam:[uk080098 / HSH1
Caller Detail
Caller:]mrs wolstenholme. Phone:

153405

:Imanager Login;
Catier 1D:

Call Problem Detaiis

[ Call Type]x I ProbT ype:]X105. il Probiem:]
Problem Text:[ home care £3.00 blackpool home help stamps,ni icon to put them into system

Call Closure Details
: [08/03/00 13:47 I Cause:[car I Repaic]Roo I Resolution: I RS08
Fext:I Call Close by Gaynor Smith: pmhtec

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset iD; Serial No:
Product: [Unknown Product : [Unknown Product Network (D7
ity
OPEN Wed 08 March 2000 13:36 by uk080098/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:40
New call taken by Gaynor Smith: home care £3.00 blackpoo! home help stamps,ni icon to put them into system
JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 13:45 by uk080098 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:45
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Wed 08 March 2000 13:46 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:46
advsd to ring nbsc as icon never there before and new items cannot be remmed in
MODIFY Wed 08 March 2000 13:46 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:47

Call information modified by Gaynor Smith Call Type: from ‘A’ to "X' Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to ‘Unknown Product’
Prod. Descr.: from ‘EPOSS' to ‘Unknown Product’ Problem Type: from ‘ADO3' to "XI05' ...etc.

CLOSE Wed 08 March 2000 13:47 by uk080098 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 13:47
Call Close by Gaynor Smith: pmhtcc

lés :

htto://owavweh01/PatEnaWebNR?/CallNetaile acn?Call=R-AnnzngNneo1 a1 ineinn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003082022 Page 1 of I

DERE pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PH4PaINR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 #CL
Call E-0003082022 ©1999 ICL
Status: IClosed Opened:IWed 08 March 2000 21:02 Site: [153405
Severity:I26 Closed: I Wed 08 March 2000 21:49 Customes-}1039
Priority:]0 CSR/Team:]uk058804 / SMC1
Caller Details
Calier:] Mr Harrison Phone! GRO} Site:] 153405

Title: [PostMaster Login:
far ID:

Sail Problem Detaiis
Product Caii Type:]S ProbType:IFEOS
Type!

Problem] Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 1Ominutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm can

ext:I rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for approx 15
minutes at a time.

Problem:

Cali Closure Details
Closed: ] 08/03/00 21:49 [_cavsefoar I Repair] R21
Text: Call Close by Santokh Chahal: PM is happy for incident closure.

Call Asset Details

Asset iD: Deseri
Product: IPATICLX365/400B Descripti
Call Activity Log
OPEN Wed 08 March 2000 20:58 by uk080013/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:02

New call taken by Jiten Jagatia: Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to
preview the balance report, so pm can rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has had]
the system busy icon on, for approx 15 minutes at a time.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 08 March 2000 21:02 by uk080013 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:02
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
information Wed 08 March 2000 21:05 by uk080013/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:05

Pm has had the system busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm
can rollover. Pm complains that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for
approx 15 minutes at a time.

IREASSIGN Wed 08 March 2000 21:06 by uk080013 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:06

Call # E-0003082022 was Reassigned from Jiten Jagatia, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Pm has had the system
busy icon on for approx 10minutes. Pm was trying to preview the balance report, so pm can rollover. Pm complains
that on every screen he has tried working on has had the system busy icon on, for approx 15 minutes at a time.
Please investigate this further.

IREASSIGN Wed 08 March 2000 21:46 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:46
Call # E-0003082022 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Santokh Chahal, Group SMC1
MODIFY Wed 08 March 2000 21:46 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:47

Call information modified by Santokh Chahal Call Type: from ‘A’ to 'S' Product ID: from ‘EPOSS' to
*PATICLX365/400B' Counter Aff.: to '1' Problem Type: from ‘ADO3' to 'FEOS'

Information Wed 08 March 2000 21:48 by uk058804 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:48
Deleted the NTlog.cache file on the gateway counter.
CLOSE Wed 08 March 2000 21:49 by uk058804/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 08 March 2000 21:49

Call Close by Santokh Chahal: PM is happy for incident closure.

Igo 3

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=F-ANN3NR7077 aineinn
Call Details E-0003090170

IEESSESEM pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01
Call E-0003090170

PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS

POL00118219
POL00118219

Page I of I

patenqweb 21/06/00 #h

©1999 ICL
Status: Closed ‘Opened:[ Thu 09 March 2000 09:13 Site:] 153405
Severity:]2C Giosed:I Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 Customer: 1039
Priority:[0 CSRiTeam:Iuk079680/ HSH1
Caller Details

Caller. Mr Harrison Phone: Site:] 153405

Title:I PostMaster Login Depaniment:

Catier ID: Location: I
Cail Provlem Details
Call Type:]S ProbType:]SD02 Problem,
(Caller has tumed on the gateway and the scren is frozen on the riposte screen the arrow is frozen as well . he was just
:I trying to log on

Calt Closure Details

Closed: [09/03/00 09:14 I Cause:]022

Repair]Ros I

on ]RSOB

Text [Call Close by Tina Brown: pm ahppy to reboot

Call Asset Detaiis

Asset iD:

Description:

Product: [eposs

OPEN Thu 09 March 2000 09:11 by uk079680/ HSH1

frozen as well . he was just trying to log on

Advice Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 by uk079680/ HSH1
Advised the caller to reboot to clear the problem

CLOSE Thu 09 March 2000 09:14 by uk079680/ HSH1
Call Close by Tina Brown: pm ahppy to reboot

Calt Activity Log

New call taken by Tina Brown: Caller has tumed on the gateway and the scren is frozen on the riposte screen the arrow is

Description:I

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:13

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:14

Saved: Thu 09 March 2000 09:14

or

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=F-0N02000170

N

ainsinn
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0003130143 ue L of I
(EEIERAM patnway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 CL
Call E-0003130143 ©1999,ICL

Si :] Closed Opened:I Mon 13 March 2000 09:07 Site:] 153405,
Severity:]3 B Closed:IMon 13 March 2000 09:10 Customer:} 1039.
Pricrity:}0 CSATeam:}uk080066 / HSH1
:I Roger harrison 53405,
PostMaster
Caller !D:I
Call Problem Detaiis
Call Type:IS ProbType:ISD02 Problem:
Pm rang to say that the main gateway has crashed this morning. He has rebooted and this solved the problem. He ws
:] told to ring in to report this.

Call Closure Details

‘Closed: 13/03/00 09:10 il Cause:[c22  [__Repal
Text:ICall Close by Matthew Saunders: PMHTCC...

Cail Asset Details

[rss

10 ]RSOB

Asset 10: Serial No:
Product:[EPOSS work 1D!
Call Activity Log
OPEN Mon 13 March 2000 09:04 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:07

New call taken by Matthew Saunders: Pm rang to say that the main gateway has crashed this morning. He has rebooted
and this solved the problem. He ws told to ring in to report this.

information Mon 13 March 2000 09:09 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:09
Pm has contacted us just to report in that he rebooted a counter and that it is fine
CLOSE = Mon 13 March 2000 09:10 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 13 March 2000 09:10

Call Close by Matthew Saunders: PMHTCC...

[Ze .

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails asn?Call=F-00N31 20142 aineinn
POL00118219

POL00118219

Call Details E-0003200387 Page 1 of 1
[CERES pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 {OL
Call E-0003200387 ©1999 ICL

‘][ Closed Opened:[Mon 20 March 2000 10:48 Sites] 153405
iy{38 Closed: [Mon 20 March 2000 10:51 Customer} 1039
fo CSRITeam:[uk0796747 HSHI

Caller:IMr Harrison Site:] 153405
‘Title: I PostMaster Department:
Cailer ID: ‘Location: I

Tall Problem Detaiis

Product Type] _[ CalltypeIs I ProbType:[SD02 I] Problem:I

Problem Text.I The gateway has crashed, it has Stop0x0000000a on the screen with a blue background.

Calt Closure Details

Closed:[20/03/00 10:51 I CauseIc22 [I __Repai-[Roa_ I

ation] RSO2

Text:I Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm happy to reboot unassisted

Gail Asset Detaits

Asset ID:
Product: I WINNT Description: Network 10:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Mon 20 March 2000 10:46 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:48
New call taken by Shelley Hatch: The gateway has crashed, it has Stop0x0000000a on the screen with a blue
background.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 20 March 2000 10:48 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:48
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Mon 20 March 2000 10:50 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:50
advised the pm to reboot following advice form the Kel Ref: SParker346J.htm pm is happy to reboot unassisted
JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 20 March 2000 10:50 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:51
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
ICLOSE Mon 20 March 2000 10:51 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:51

Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm happy to reboot unassisted

189

httn://nwarnwehNl /PathnaWeahNip I/CallNataile non IOP ANNIIANT OT Ra sw ebes
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003210083 Page I of 1
[EEERG¥ patnway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #>L
Call E-0003210083 @1999:1CL
Status:IClosed ‘Opened:I Tue 21 March 2000 08:54 153405
Severity:[3 B Closed: IWed 22 March 2000 15:18 Customer: [1039
:Io CSRTeam: [uk059133 / SMC1
‘]roger harrison Sita:]153405
:I PostMaster Department:
Location:
Call Problem Details
Product] Call Type:IS ProbType:]SD02 Problem:
Type:
PrablemI gateway has blue nt screen with stop message, this has happened very regularly and pm is re-booting almost
Text: daily,ref:0002240009, 000301 003 1,0003070610,0003080691 ,01 132372993,01132372903,01132373714. he had already
begun re-boot this morning on his own
Cali Closure Details
Closed:[22/03/00 15:18 I Cause[c22 I Repair:[R08 I Resolution: [RS08
Text:I Call Close by Seema Shah: PM happy to close call as system is working ok.

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset ID Seral No:
Product: EPOSS Network 1;
Call Activity Log
OPEN Tue 21 March 2000 08:49 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:54

New call taken by Suzanne Armstrong: gateway has blue nt screen with stop message, this has happened very
regularly and pm is re-booting almost

daily,ref:0002240009,000301 003100030706 10,0003080691 ,01 132372993, 01 132372903,01132373714. he had
already begun re-boot this morning on his own

JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 21 March 2000 08:54 by uk080053 / HSH
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Escalate Tue 21 March 2000 08:59 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:59

re-assigning to smct for information and possible investigation. this momings problem resolved but pm concerned
that this is a recurring problem

IREASSIGN Tue 21 March 2000 09:01 by uk080053 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 09:01

Gall # E-0003210083 was Reassigned from Suzanne Armstrong, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning for
information and investigation

JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 21 March 2000 09:19 by UK065182/ SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN © Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Call # €-0003210083 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Seema Shah, Group SMC1
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
information Wed 22 March 2000 15:17 by uk059133 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:17
Contacted PM and he advised that the system is working normal today and is happy for this call to be closed.
CLOSE Wed 22 March 2000 15:18 by uk059133/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 22 March 2000 15:18
Call Close by Seema Shah: PM happy to close call as system is working ok.

Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 08:54

‘Saved: Tue 21 March 2000 09:20

142 -

http://owavweb01/PatRnaWehNR2/CallNetaile aonICa-E ANNII ANC? ni wane
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003280779 Page I of I
EEXES@A¥ pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 SE
Call E-0003280779 ©1999, 1CL
Status-[Closed ‘Opened:I Tue 28 March 2000 12:53 Site:[ 153405
Severity:I3 B Gio Customer: [1039
Prionity:]0 CSR/Team: [uk079786 / HSH1

Julie Walstonhow Site:] 153405

I PostMaster

Caller 1D:
Call Problem Detaits

Product Type] I Cat Type]s I ProbType:]SD02
Problem Text [Pm says the gateway counter has crashed again.

Call Closure Details

Closed: 28/03/00 12:57 [ Repair[Roa [I Resolution:I RSO7
Texi:I Call Close by Nick Winger: Close this call as there is another one on the stack for the same problem. PMHTCC.
Call Asset Os
Asset iD: Description: Seria! No:
Produict:I Unknown Product Bes< Net
Call Activity Log

OPEN Tue 28 March 2000 12:50 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:53

New call taken by Nick Winger: Pm says the gateway counter has crashed again.
JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 12:54 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:55

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Atfected Site:153405)
Information Tue 28 March 2000 12:56 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:56

The pm has another call on the open stack about the same issue that SMC1 are looking at already. Will close this

one down.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 12:57 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:57

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
CLOSE Tue 28 March 2000 12:57 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 12:57

Call Close by Nick Winger: Close this call as there is another one on the stack for the same problem. PMHTCC.

(4 -

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.aso?Call=F-00037 20779 TINE INA
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003281454

Page I of I
EERE pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #ME
Call E-0003281454 ©1999 ICL
Status:]Closed ‘Opened:[ Tue 28 March 2000 17:58 Site:] 153405
Severity:]3 B Closed:IWed 29 March 2000 09:18 Customer: [1039
Prionity:[0 CSRiTeam:]uk061825 / SMC1
Caller Details
Caller-I Mr Harrison Phonet Site:] 153405
Title:] PostMaster Login:
Gatier 1D:
Cail Provlem Detaits
Produe!]PT04 Call Types ProbType:I SD02 Provlem!
ype

[Counter printer not working - green ready light on steady - trying to print giro report at first but then tried cheques listing
:I that did not work either - not run out of paper - problem first noticed approx 16.45 printing giro report - PM went live
107.02,00 he thinks - very unhappy with horizon has had loads of problems - major problems this week alone.

Call Closure D:
Closed:]29/03/00 09:18 I Cause:[c22 I Repair:[ROo I Resolution: I RSO8
Text: [Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: Has crash debug error on counter.

Call Asset Details

Asset 1D: Description:I Serial No:
Product: PATITH94PTR Desoription:IIthica 94 Printer Network iD:
Call Activity Log

JOPEN Tue 28 March 2000 17:55 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:58

New call taken by Lyndsey Elliot: Counter printer not working - green ready light on steady - trying to print giro report at
first but then tried cheques listing that did not work either - not run out of paper - problem first noticed approx 16.45

printing giro report - PM went live 07.02.00 he thinks - very unhappy with horizon has had loads of problems - major
problems this week alone:

information Tue 28 March 2000 18:02 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 18:02
Userid RHAQO1 - SU AA shared - BP 01 - CAPO1.
IREASSIGN Tue 28 March 2000 18:02 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 18:04

Call # E-0003281454 was Reassigned from Lyndsey Elliot, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 PM worried about the fact that
he has “crashed” so many times. Reassigned for investigation.

IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:16 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16
Call # E-0003281454 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1
Contacted Wed 29 March 2000 09:17 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:17

Called PM and he is having his base unit swopped out today due to the crash debug error, call E-0003280186. This
should also resolve this call so can now be closed.

CLOSE — Wed 29 March 2000 09:18 by uk061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:18
Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: Has crash debug error on counter.

192 a

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000328 1454 ine ian

POL00118219
eed

a

Call Details E-0003100662

POL00118219
POL00118219

Page I of 2

EEREEAM pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 {>
Call E-0003100662 ©1999.10L
Status:[Closed ‘Opened: [Fri 10 March 2000 13:20 Site:]153405
Sevarity:[3 B Closed:[Thu 30 March 2000 08:54 Customer:} 1039
Priority:0 CSAiTeam: }uk059129 / SMC1
Caller Detaiis
Cailer:] Etait Cm site: [153405
Title: I NM
Product] :]HDO1 Problem:
Type:
NM states that the gateway crashes at least 3 or 4 times a week now, but in the beginning it was at least 2 times a day -
:] An Engineer has been out to swap the base unit in the past and advised that they should have a Pentium 3 not a Pentium
2 processor
Ciosec:[ 30/03/00 08:54 I L in

Text:I Call Close by Shaun Jowett: Duplicate Call E-0003280186 open for an engineer visit. Closing this call.

Cail Asset Detai's

‘Asset D2] 1534051 Description:

Serial No:I792852T

OPEN

Information

Information

Information

Information

information

Information

UPDATE

Information

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003 100667

Product:] PATICLX365/400B Description: Network ID:

IREASSIGN: Fri 10 March 2000 13:31 by uk066701 / HSH1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 15 March 2000 18:08 by UK052512/ SMC1

IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 15 March 2000 18:08 by UK052512/ SMC1

REASSIGN Wed 15 March 2000 18:13 by UK052512/ SMC1

Call Activity Log
Fri 10 Marth 2000 13:12 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:20

New call taken by Joanne Fitzpatrick: RNM states that the gateway crashes at least 3 or 4 times a week now, but in
the beginning it was at least 2 times a day - An Engineer has been out to swap the base unit in the past and
advised that they should have a Pentium 3 not a Pentium 2 processor

Fri 10 March 2000 13:28 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:28

<<<- PO has spoken to BT about this (advised by someone to do so) BT have advised that the ISDN is ok but
maybe is getting overloaded.

Fri 10 March 2000 13:29 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:29

<<< RNM states that the office is having an extra counter installed 07.04.00 and the office will be closed at that
time - could we look at the gateway at the same time to try to resolve the problem -

Fri 10 March 2000 13:29 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:29

<<<she also states that all the counters are very very slow. On Wednesday 08.03.00 office balance is much slower
than any other office she has supported - not just a bit, a lot slower - eg. office was waiting approx 20 mins for
adjust stock to load

Saved: Fri 10 March 2000 13:31

Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Joanne Fitzpatrick, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 passing for
inestigation? progression ?

Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Wed 15 March 2000 18:11 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:11

Have spoken to PM. states that the system still is slow. He is doing his balancing at the moment and it is slow. Just
done stock adjusting and taken 10 minutes - he thinks this is a long time. Also Giro deposits/cutoff slow. Have

explained that the Giro has a number of issues and may be slow. He opens Mon-Fri 9 til 5.30 - does not close for
funch.

Wed 15 March 2000 18:12 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:12
Reassigning call for check on the gateway system. PM stil insisting that the Gateway is slow

Wed 15 March 2000 18:13 by UK052512/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:13
Open 9 til 5.30pm Mon to Fri

Saved: Wed 15 March 2000 18:14
Call # £-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

Fri 17 March 2000 14:43 by PINICL/ Saved: Fri 17 March 2000 14:43

By Steve Squires at 17-mar-2000 14:43:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation The gateway Event log

shows that it has crashed once in the last seven days and twice in the preceeding seven days. There is nothing in
the message store to indicate a common cause.

Mon 20 March 2000 10:53 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:53
Call E-0003200387 (closed), shows another NT crash at the office. pm states it happens when all the counters are

VINEINN
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003 100662 Page 2 of 2

MODIFY Mon 20 March 2000 10:54 by uk079674/ HSH1 ‘Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:54

Call information modified by Shelley Hatch Call Type: from ‘O’ to 'S’ Product ID: from 'EPOSS' to ‘WINNT’ Severity:
from ‘2’ to '3' Problem Type: from ‘OD02" to ‘SD02"

JOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 20 March 2000 10:54 by uk079674 / HSH1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN Mon 27 March 2000 10:21 by uk080110/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 10:23

Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group HSH1 base unit on gateway has been
replaced but it has crashed 3 more times in the last week

IREASSIGN Mon 27 March 2000 11:39 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 11:40

Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group HSH1 to Group EDSC1 Reassigning back to EDSC as
reassigned to HSH1 in error.

Repeat Call Mon 27 March 2000 11:39 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 27 March 2000 11:39

Gateway creashed tried rebbot - got message ‘service control manager at least one service or driver failed during
system start up. Use event viewer to examine event log for details’ System busy. - got Pm to ok message - got
normal ripost screen.

JUPDATE Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28

By Pat Carroll at 30-mar-2000 08:27:00 Category 40 - Incident Under investigation 44 CMD processes each killed
on counters 2-4

JOTI_CLOSE Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Pat Carroll at 30-mar-2000 08:30:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault please arrange for swap of

Saved: Mon 20 March 2000 10:54

Gateway,

IREASSIGN Thu 30 March 2000 08:28 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:28
OT! monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to uk066701 (HSH1)

\Contacted Fri 31 March 2000 08:36 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:36
contacted Po to try to obtain access times for PO but no answer

IMODIFY Fri 31 March 2000 08:36 by uk066701 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:38

Call information modified by Joanne Fitzpatrick Call Type: from 'S' to"H' Product ID: from ‘WINNT’ to
‘PATICLX365/400B" Serial #: to '792852T' Tag: to '1534051' Problem Type: from 'SD02' to 'HD01"
IREASSIGN Fri 31 March 2000 08:38 by uk066701 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:38

Call # E-0003100662 was Reassigned from Joanne Fitzpatrick, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 voiced sme that this
call is going back to their stack ~ smc will look at the call

IREASSIGN —Thu 30 March 2000 08:47 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:47
Call # £-0003100662 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 30 March 2000 08:48 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:49
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 30 March 2000 08:50 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information Thu 30 March 2000 08:53 by uk059129 / SMC1 ‘Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:53.

Ihave spoken to UKSS regarding this call and call E-0003280186 is open with them for an engineer visit to swap
the base unit. For this reason I am now closing this call.

CLOSE Thu 30 March 2000 08:54 by uk059129 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 08:54
Call Close by Shaun Jowett: Duplicate Call E-0003280186 open for an engineer visit. Closing this call.

This call has remarks

19u

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003 10066? a1 ineinn
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003310117 ‘age I of 1

{GESTS patnway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 #{>h
Call E-0003310117 199916.

‘Status:I Closed ‘Opened: [Fri 31 March 2000 08:55 153405

Severity:[3 B Closed:I Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 1039
Priority:}0 arr: [ukO66934 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caller: [Mr Harrison Phone:f ___ GRO. :] 153405
Title: ] PostMaster Logi
Cater 1D!

Call Problem Details
Product Type:[PT01 L Cail Type]s ProbType:[SD01 I Problem]
Problem Text:I gate way tured on and has biue screen with STOPX0000000XA.

Call Closure Details

IClosed:I 31/03/00 08:57 L Cause'[c22 I Repair]Ros I ‘on:]RS08

Text:I Call Close by Simon Davies: gate way tumed on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot
lcounter. pmhtc

Call Asset Detaiis

et 1D: Description: Serial No:
Product: IEPOSS. Description: EPOSS Network 1D:
Call Aciivity Log a
JOPEN Fri 31 March 2000 08:53 by uk066934/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:55
New call taken by Simon Davies: gate way tured on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA.
Advice Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 by uk066934/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:57
gate way turned on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot counter.
ICLOSE Fri 31 March 2000 08:57 by uk066934/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 08:57
Cail Close by Simon Davies: gate way turned on and has blue screen with STOPX0000000XA., advised pm to reboot
counter. pmhtc
sm

14s

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-00033 19117 DINBINN
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-00033 11246 Page I of I
ESE pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 {TL
Call E-0003311246 ©1999 ICL
Siatus:I Closed Opened:IFri 31 March 2000 17:35 Site] 159405
Severty:]2 C ‘Cigseu:I Sat 01 April 2000 09:20 Customer. )1039
Priorty:[0 CSAVTeam: I uk0613547 SMC
Caller Details
Caller] Elaine Tagg Phony 153405
Title: I RNM Login’ Depart
Caller 1D; U

Cail Proviem Details
Js ProbType:] S002

ProductIPT17 Cail T;
Type!

ProblemI The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day and is getting worse. They have had several base units
‘ext:]installed but the problem persists

Call Closure D
Closed:]01/04/00 09:20 I Cause:[c22 I Repair[Ra2 I
Text:I Call Close by Stephen Comey: Duplicate call.
Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset 10: Description,
Product: I CENFUJERGOPRO. Description: [Fujitsu ErgoPro Network iD)
Call Activity Log
lOPEN Fri 31 March 2000 17:30 by uk080111/ HSHt Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 17:35

New call taken By Bev Brown: The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day and is getting worse. They
have had several base units installed but the problem persists

IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 17:39 by uk080111 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 17:39
Reassigning to SMC for further investigation. The system crashed 3 or 4 times a day. New base units have been installed]
but the problem persists

REASSIGN Fri 31 March 2000 17:40 by uk080111/ HSH1 Saved: Fti 31 March 2000 17:41

Call # E-0003311246 was Reassigned from Bev Brown, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning to SMC for further
investigation. The system crashed 3 or 4 times a day. New base units have been installed but the problem persists

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 09:14 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:14
Call # E-0003311246 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Stephen Corney, Group SMC1

Information Sat 01 April 2000 09:18 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:18
Call being dealt with on call E-0003280186, closing as duplicate.

ICLOSE —_Sat 01 April 2000 09:20 by uk061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:20

Call Close by Stephen Corney: Duplicate call

\Ac I

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/Cal IDetails.asp?Call=F-000331 1246 INE an
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004060966 Page 1 of 1

EEG pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwed 21/06/00 #7
Call E-0004060966 81999 ICL
Status: [Closed ‘Opened: Thu 06 April 2000 12:56 [153405
SevertyI3 B Closed: [Thu 06 April 2000 13:01 1039
Priority:}0 :}uk079746 / HSH1
Caller Details
Caiier-IMr M A Jackson Phones). GRO. 3 :] 153405
Titia: I PostMaster Login:]
Calor 1D:

Call Problem Detalis
Product Type:]PTO1 I Call Type:]s I
Problem Text:I Roger Harrison - this morning 06/03/00 scre

sabType:]SD02 I

Call Closure Details

Closed:]06/04/00 13:01 [__causefoze Repair]Ro4 I Resokition: [RSO8
Text: I Call Close by Ashley Molyneaux: Pm htec

Call Assat Det
Asset iD: Description: Serial No:
Product:IEPOSS Description: [EPOSS Network 10;
ity Log
OPEN Thu 06 April 2000 12:53 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:56
New call taken by Ashley Molyneaux: Roger Harrison - this morning 06/03/00 scre
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:56 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:57
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:57 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:58
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 12:58 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:58
‘Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Thu 06 April 2000 12:59 by ukO79746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:59
Screen freeze this morning now gone, Pm advises me that it me has vital memory. Advised pm hard reboot 1
clear.
CLOSE Thu 06 April 2000 13:01 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:01

Call Close by Ashley Molyneaux: Pm htcc

197

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004060966 21/06/00
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004060258 Page I of 2
EERE pathway NR2 Archived.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwebd 21/06/00 XL
Call E-0004060258 1999.10
Status:I Closed ‘Opened:I Thu 06 April 2000 09:19
Severit Clesed:I Thu 06 April 2000 13:37 Custor

Priority:

CSR/Team:} uk066237 / HSH1

Caller De

Calier:[roger harrison Site:]153405
PostMaster Logit Department:I
Catier 10; Location:
Call Problem Det
Product Type:]PT04 I Call tyse[H_ I Probtype:[HD08. [

Problem Text: Ipm reports that BOP OK laser printer not working
Call Closure Details
‘Closed:[ 06/04/00 13:37 [___Cause:foompleted [_Repaiee21 I
‘Text:I Call Close by Joseph Fitzgerald: pmhtc

Call Asset Detai

‘Asset i0:] 1534051 Description: OKI Printer

“ATOKIGP-PTR Description: [OKI Printer

Cali Activity Log

lOPEN Thu 06 April 2000 09:15 by uk080014 / HSHt Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:19
New call taken by Mahesh Patel: pm reports that BOP OKI laser printer not working

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 09:22 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:23
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Thu 06 April 2000 09:24 by uk080014 / HSHt Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:24

advise pm to swich off/ on cancel messages on screen this wass unsuccessful advised pm to print test page not
printing nothing red light makes a whirring noise unhealthy noise

(02WS3033101K

[Access Times Thu 06 April 2000 09:28 by uk080014 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:28
mon - fri 09.00 - 17.30 sat 09.00 - 12.30

REASSIGN —_—_Thu 06 April 2000 09:29 by uk080014/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:28
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassigning for
progression

Recommend Thu 08 April 2000 09:58 by UKO61148 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:58
Recommend OK! printer is replaced, assigning to UKSS for on site engineer

IREASSIGN: Thu 06 April 2000 09:59 by UK061148 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:59
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group UKSS for on site engineer.

MODIFY ‘Thu 06 Apri! 2000 09:55 by UKO61148 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 09:59

Call information modified by Martin Cherry Action Group: from ‘SMC1' to "UKSS' CSR ID: Serial #: to
*02WS3033101K' Tag: to '1534051"

REASSIGN Thu 08 April 2000 11:19 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:19
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS

REASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 11:20 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Thu 08 April 2000 11:20
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS to Group UKSS1

IREASSIGN —_Thu 08 April 2000 11:41 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 Aprit 2000 11:39
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 06-04-2000 14:30:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 12:25 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:23
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 06-04-2000 14:26:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 12:55 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 12:54
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 06-04-2000 12:48:00 ** [No Remark entered]

UPDATE Thu 06 Apri! 2000 13:05 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:03
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 06-04-2000 12:59:00 ** [Engineer 064008 Logged On.]

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 13:25 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23
swaped printer due to not printing.

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 13:25 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23
Work completed

ENG VISIT Thu 06 April 2000 12:59 by 064008 / ENGINEERS. Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:17

swaped printer due to not printing. Call closure code of completed and repair code 821
IREASSIGN —Thu 06 April 2000 13:23 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:23
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to UK035161 (UKSS)

ee ad

14s

http://pwayweb01/PatEna WebNR2/CallNetails asn?Call=F -ANNANANI <2 Aviacinn
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0004060258 Page 2 of 2

IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 13:29 by UKO35161 / UKSS. Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:29

Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS to Group SMC1 Re-assigning back to
SMC after engineer visit.

MODIFY ‘Thu 06 April 2000 13:36 by uk066237 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:37
Call information modified by Joseph Fitzgerald Severity: from '2' to'3"

IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 13:37 by uk066237 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:37
Call # E-0004060258 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Joseph Fitzgerald, Group HSH! for closure

CLOSE ‘Thu 06 April 2000 13:37 by uk066237 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 13:37

Call Close by Joseph Fitzgerald: pmhte

This call has remarks

199,

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal.

=E-0004060258 21N6/N
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004061 124 Page I of 2
SEERA pathway NR2 Archives.Oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 (CL
Call E-0004061124 ©1999 16L
Status:[ Closed ‘Opened: I Thu 06 April 2000 14:02 :] 153405
Severity:]3 8 Clesect:[ Sat 08 April 2000 13:58 -]!039
Priority:I 0 :[uk079832 / HSHt
Caller Details
Caller: Mike crowshaw SSC Phone! GRO. Site:] 153405
Login: Department:
I Caller 1D: Loca’
Call Problem De
Product Type:[PTO3 I Cat Type]x I Probtype:[CC24 L Probiem]
Problem Text: I please swap Gateway tomorrow in addition to adding an extra counter.
Call Closure Details
‘Closed: 08/04/00 13:58 [ Cause:ffaiture I Repar]a21 I Resolution:] RSO3
‘Text:ICall Close by Anthony Marsh: as per log gateway replaced call closed
Call Asset Detaiis
2 Asset (D:] 1534051 Bescription: [Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Senal No:]792852T
Product: I paticlx365/400c Description:I Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites Network 1D;
SS ee
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 06 April 2000 14:00 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:02
New call taken by Shelley Hatch: please swap Gateway tomorrow in addition to adding an extra counter.
MODIFY Thu 06 April 2090 14:04 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:04
Call information modified by Shelley Hatch Counter Aft. to '1"
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 14:04 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:04
Call # E-0004061 124 was Reassigned from Shelley Hatch, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 for attention of UKSS
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:03 by uk079674/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:04
Call # E-0004061124 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group UKSS for action
IREASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:28 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:29
Call # -0004061 124 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS Reassigned for progression
REASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:34 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:34
Call # E-0004061 124 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group UKSS1 Reassigned for engineers
visit
Information Thu 06 April 2000 16:34 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:34
This call is for the attention of Imraan Rawat
MODIFY Thu 06 April 2000 16:33 by G.Simpson / UKSS Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:35
Call information modified by Glynis Simpson Action Group: from "UKSS' to ‘UKSS1' CSR ID: from'G.Simpson' Prod.
Deser.: from ” Product Type: from" to 'PTO3"
REASSIGN Thu 06 April 2000 16:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 16:47
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 11:30:00 Engineer 051286 allocated
IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 09:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 09:48
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 07-04-2000 13:04:00 Engineer 064008 allocated
REASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:31 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:30
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:06:00 Engineer 051286 allocated
REASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:40 by Dispatch 1 / ‘Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:37
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:26:00 Engineer 051286 allocated
UPDATE Sat 08 April 2000 09:00 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 08:59
Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 08-04-2000 08:57:00 ** [No Remark entered.]
UPDATE Sat 08 April 2000 09:00 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 08:59
** [Engineer 051286 Logged On]
ENG VISIT Sat 08 April 2000 15:00 by 051286 / ENGINEERS, Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 16:30
** [No Remark entered.} Call closure code of failure and repair code 821
REASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 09:27 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:27
OT! monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 18 G.Simpson (UKSS)
IREASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 09:31 by GB506518 / UKSS2 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:32
Call # E-0004061124 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Shelley Hatch, Group HSH{1 passing back
to close - calltype amended to OBC to add additional counter
IMODIFY — Sat 08 April 2000 09:31 by GB506518 / UKSS2 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 09:34
Call information modified by Bill Burrows Action Group: from “UKSS' to ‘HSH1' Call Type: from 'H’ to "X" CSR ID: trom
"G.Simpson’ to 'uk079674' Product ID: from ‘PATICLX365/4008' to ‘paticlx365;400c’ ...etc.

32
Css

http: spmametarratagweone Fee asp?Call= E-0004061 194 dine
Call Details E-0004061124

IREASSIGN Sat 08 April 2000 13:58 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:58
Call # E-0004061124 was Reassigned from Shelley Hatch, Group HSH1 to Anthony Marsh, Group HSH1
ICLOSE _—Sat 08 April 2000 13:58 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:58

Call Close by Anthony Marsh: as per log gateway replaced calll closed

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Page 2 of 2

This call has remarks

aol

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal]=E-0004061 124

21/06/00
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004080446 Page I of 1
ESTES pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #>L
Call E-0004080446 ©1999.'CL.
Opened: ] Sat 08 April 2000 12:46 Site:] 153405
Closed: Sat 08 April 2000 13:02 Customer:]1039
Priority:{0 ‘CSA‘Team:) uk079832/ HSHt
Caller Details
Calter:[ Julie Wolstenhoine Phone:t Site:] 153405
Title:I PostMaster LoginI Department:
Cater 1D: Location:
Call Provlem Detaits
Product Type:/PTO1 ] Call Type:]A_I I

Problem Text:] PM reports that she is

Calt Closure Cetails

Closed:]08/04/00 13:02 L__Cause‘cs2 I Repair ]Ros I :[RS08
Text: [Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is back up.
Gall Asset Details
Asset 1D: Description: Serial No}
Product: IADMIN Description:} ADMIN Network 10:
Call Activity Log
OPEN Sat 08 April 2000 12:44 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:46
New call taken by Anthony Marsh: PM reports that she is
JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:47 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:47
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:47 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:49
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Sat 08 April 2000 12:49 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:49

PM reports that on NODE id 5 which was only installed yesterday she gets message that node 2,3 and 4 and then
1,2 3, 4 are disconnected from the network she ok this message and now she has a message that this counter isn't
connected to the network...

Advice Sat 08 April 2000 12:50 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:50

Advising to ok the message, and the sytem is now as normal...passing to SMC for investigation since all the other
counters have problems too, and this is ongoing problem at this site.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:51 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:52
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
MODIFY Sat 08 April 2000 12:52 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:53

Call information modified by Anthony Marsh Call Type: from ‘A’ to "H' Product ID: from ‘EPOSS' to ‘Unknown:
Product’ Severity: from ‘2’ to ‘3' Prod. Descr.: from ‘EPOSS' to "Unknown Product’ Problem Type: from ‘ADO3' to

‘HDOT' ...etc.

Advice ‘Sat 08 April 2000 12:53 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:53
There are no entry signs on everything so advising to log out and reboot the counter position...

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 08 April 2000 12:53 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:54
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Advice Sat 08 April 2000 12:55 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:55
Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is backup: :

MODIFY Sat 08 April 2000 13:01 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:02

Call information modified by Anthony Marsh Call Type: from 'H’ to ‘A’ Product ID: from ‘Unknown Product’ to

‘ADMIN’ Severity: from ‘3' to ‘2° Prod. Descr.: from ‘Unknown Product’ to ‘ADMIN’ Problem Type: from 'HD01" to
“ADOS' ...etc.

IcLose Sat 08 April 2000 13:02 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 13:02
Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Awaiting reboot...she is ok now the system is back up.

202

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004080446 qnKIAN
>

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0003280186 Page I of 4
EGRESEAW pathway NR2 Archives.a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 {31
Call E-0003280186 ©1999.101,
:[Closed Opened: I Tue 28 March 2000 09:08 ‘Site: ] 153405
4A Closed:[Mon 10 April 2000 14:31 Customer: I1039
-]99 CSRYTeam:Iuk059129/ SMC1
Caller Details
[Roger Harrison Site:]153405
PostMaster Department,
Caller ID; Location:
Call Problem Details
Product] PTO3 Call Type:]S ProbTyps:] S001
‘Type:

Problem] PM states that system has already crashed this moring. System was rebooted and has crashed again. This has occured
Text:Iwithin 10mins of each other. ***STOP 0x0000000A.

Call Closure Details

MODIFY

Closed:I 10/04/00 14:31 I Cause:[c22 I L Resolution: [RS08
‘Text:I Call Close by Shaun Jowett: I have spoken to the PM and everything now seems to be functioning correctly.
Call Asset Details
Asset 'D:]1534051 ior] Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Serial No:]792852T
Product:I PATICLX365/400B Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network iD
I nent ———_————
Cal! Activity Log
OPEN Tue 28 March 2000 09:04 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:08
New call tken by Simon Gavin: PM states that system has already crashed this moring. System was rebooted and
has crashed again. This has occured within 10mins of each other. ***STOP 0x0000000A.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 28 March 2000 09:08 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Advice Tue 28 March 2000 09:11 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:11
advised PM to reboot counter as an 0x0..A stop code.
IREASSIGN Tue 28 March 2000 09:11 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:12
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning for informationI
and investigation
Information Tue 28 March 2000 09:12 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 09:12
conuter affected is the gateway
Information Tue 28 March 2000 13:04 by uk079786 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 13:04
Pm called again to say she rebooted the counter and it has crashed again. She is still waiting for a call back from
second line.
Information ‘Tue 28 March 2000 17:24 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:24
pm reporting that system gateway counter has crashed. blue debug screen. tried to voice throught to sme for
advise as to whether to re boot.
Information Tue 28 March 2000 17:26 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:26
spoke to sme advised that probably memeory problem.
Information Tue 28 March 2000 17:27 by uk080007 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 28 March 2000 17:27
pm advised that he has rebooted four times today. advised pm that sme will contact him.
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 07:10 by UKO61801/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 07:10 °
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN == Wed 29 March 2000 09:04 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:04
Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 09:10 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:11
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IContacted Wed 29 March 2000 09:13 by UK081825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:13
Called PM per kel ref. rcoleman2040m.htm and advised that we need to change the base unit as reboots haven't
cured the problem.
Recommend Wed 29 March 2000 09:14 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:14

IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 29 March 2000 09:15 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:15

IREASSIGN: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16

Engineer required to swop out the base unit, build 2_2. Access times today are till 2pm, tomorrow 9 - 5.30pm.

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1 to Group UKSS passing for engineer visit
Wed 29 March 2000 09:09 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:16

Call information modified by Kyrstin Stuart Action Group: from 'SMC1" to 'UKSS' CSR ID: from 'uk061825' Product
ID: from 'EPOSS' to 'PATICLX365/400B' Prod. Descr.: from 'EPOSS' Counter Aff.: to '1’ ...etc.

203 266,

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003280186 21/06/00
Call Details E-0003280186

IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:13 by G.Simpson / UKSS

progression
MODIFY Wed 29 March 2000 09:17 by G.Simpson / UKSS

Call information modified by Glynis Simpson Serial #: to '792852T" Tag: to "1534051"
IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:18 by G.Simpson / UKSS

engineers visit
IREASSIGN Wed 29 March 2000 09:40 by Dispatch 1 /
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 29-03-2000 10:25:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

Call released by Jayne Drew: releasing for eng visit

repair code 819
IREASSIGN Thu 30 March 2000 13:14 by Dispatch 1/

OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to G.Simpson (UKSS)
IREASSIGN Thu 30 March 2000 13:20 by G.Simpson / UKSS

call returned for action
Repeat Call Thu 30 March 2000 16:07 by uk080108 / HSH1

sure that problem could not with base unit as this has bee:

caller wants this escalated.
IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 16:49 by uk080011/ HSH1

merge the calls.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:51 by uk080011/ HSH1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011 / HSH1

They have had several base units installed but the problem persists
JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011/ HSH1

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 16:52 by uk080011 / HSH1

installed but the problem persists
JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:53 by uk080011/ HSH1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

‘Advised PM to reboot the counter - PM happy to carry this out as long as this is investigated.

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

had about 5 base units only went live 7/2/2000. System is crashir
JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 01 April 2000 08:51 by UK061354/ SMC1

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

information Sat 01 Apri! 2000 08:54 by uk080054 / HSH1

have a look into it.

Ady

http://pwayweb01/ PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=£-0003280 186

Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:14
Call # €-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS Reassigned for

Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:17

Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:18
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group UKSS1 Reassigned for

Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 09:38

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 14:10 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 14:08
Engineer 064008 despatched to site at 29-03-2000 14:00:00 ** {No Remark entered.}

IUPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 15:10 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 15:09
Engineer 064008 arrived on site at 29-03-2000 15:01:00 ** (Engineer 064008 Logged On.}

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 16:10 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 16:07
Base unit failed on fit

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 16:10 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 16:07
base unit 4008 failed on fit. serial number of bas e unit given to Becky

UPDATE Wed 29 March 2000 17:30 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 17:28
Engineer 064008 allocated

SUSPEND: Wed 29 March 2000 18:03 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 29 March 2000 18:03
Calll suspended by Jayne Drew SUSPENDING PENDING RETURN VISIT BY ENG TOMORROW

RELEASE Thu 30 March 2000 07:56 by UK052525 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 07:56

ENG VISIT ‘Thu 30 March 2000 09:00 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 12:00

ENG REPLACED BASE UNIT STILL NO CHANGE IN THE SPEED OF THE SYSTEM REINSTALLED OLD BASE
UNIT ENG ADVISED PM TO RELOG IF PROBLEM GETS ANY SLOWER. Call closure code of unnecessar and

Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 13:14

‘Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 13:21
Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from Glynis Simpson, Group UKSS to Group SMC1 Engineer visit complete,

Saved: Thu 30 March 2000 18:07

Base unit was installed at 10.30 and crashed immmeadiatly. Engineer rebooted but has just crashed again. - Pm is

n changed many times and problem is still occuring.
Advice Fri 31 March 2000 13:47 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 13:47

‘Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:49
Call e-0003311246 was raised on the back of this and is related to the same problem - voiced SMC who advised to

Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52

Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52
New call taken by Bev Brown: The system keeps crashing and IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day ands getting worse.

Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52

Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:52
Reassigning to SMC for further invéstigation. The system crashed 3 or-4 times a day. New base units have been

Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:53

IAdvice Fri 31 March 2000 16:53 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:53
JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 31 March 2000 16:54 by uk080011 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 31 March 2000 16:54

Repeat Call Sat 01 April 2000 08:49 by uk080054 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:49

PM reports that the gateway has crashed yet again(blue stop screen 0x0000000A.) Pm not happy as no amount of
reboots or swapping of base units seems to work. There is no pattern to the system crashing, PM states they have
ng at least once a day up to 4 times a day
Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:52

Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:54
PM states that they had a call yesterday after the system crashed. E-0003311246. VOiced SMC who said they will

POL00118219
POL00118219

Page 2 of 4

DO6INO
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0003280186

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 08:58 by uk080054 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 08:58
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group SMC1 Reasign for invetigation

IOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 01 April 2000 09:00 by UK061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 09:00
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 10:45 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 10:45
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Stephen Corney, Group SMC1

Information Sat 01 April 2000 12:38 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 12:38

Gateway counter has been swapped out before and still there is continual problems with the gateway counter blue
screens, can this site be investigated to see if there is any reasons for this.

Information _—_‘Sat 01 April 2000 14:42 by UK061354/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:42
Event logs down loaded ref:32019

Information Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UK061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43
For investigation

ReOpen OT! Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UK061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43
For investigation

IREASSIGN Sat 01 April 2000 14:43 by UK061354 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 01 April 2000 14:43.
Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from Stephen Corey, Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

UPDATE Mon 03 April 2000 09:42 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 03 April 2000 09:42

By Paul Steed at 03-apr-2000 09:40:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation PRESCAN:Routing to Mike in
the absence of Pat

IOTLCLOSE —Tue 04 April 2000 10:22 by PINICL / Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:22

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME

By Mike Croshaw at 04-apr-2000 10:23:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault SSC cannot ping gateway -
please pass to CFM ASAP to check comms to this site.

IREASSIGN Tue 04 April 2000 10:22 by PINICL / Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:22
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061354 (SMC1)

information Tue 04 April 2000 10:57 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:57
Raising call to an ‘A’ priority - on aithorisation of Alison Peacock.

information Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UKO61356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:58
Passing call to CFM3 - please check comms.

IREASSIGN Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:58
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Stephen Corney, Group SMC1t to Group CFM3

MODIFY Tue 04 April 2000 10:58 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 10:59
Call information modified by Anthony Obi CSR ID: Priority: from ‘0’ to ‘99° Severity: from ‘3’ to ‘4°

information Tue 04 April 2000 11:15 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 11:15

We are establshing Normal call clearing to this counter but are not passing packets, this suggests problems with
counter, KEL points towards the eicon driver. There is not a fault on this ISDN line. PH

IREASSIGN Tue 04 April 2000 11:17 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 11:17
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group SMC1
information Tue 04 April 2000 23:39 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:39

Passing back to EDSC per update from CFM, counter has already been swopped out previously and still
experiencing the same problem.

XN

IReOpen OT! Tue 04 April 2000 23:40 by UK061825/ SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:40
Passing back to EDSC per update from CFM, counter has already been swopped out previously and still
J experiencing the same problem.
IREASSIGN —_—_Tue 04 April 2000 23:41 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 04 April 2000 23:41
Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 Passing for investigation
Information Wed 05 April 2000 04:24 by UK061826/ SMC1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 04:24
Noted on shift handover for am shift to voice prompt.
Repeat Call - Wed 05 Aptil-2000 09:04 by uk079785/ HSH1~ Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 09:04 ~
pm reporting yet another crash, advised that 3rd line software support are investigating and he will be updated asap
lAdvice ‘Wed 05 April 2000 14:52 by uk079746 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 Aprit 2000 14:52
Pm called in to advise us that again it has windows crash, spoke to Mike Croshaw he advised reboot to clear.
UPDATE Wed 05 April 2000 16:47 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 16:47

By Mike Croshaw at 05-apr-2000 16:49:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation This looks like a problem with
the Eicon driver ( together with some very intermittent comms ). Continuing to gather further evidence.

JUPDATE Wed 05 April 2000 17:22 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:22

By Mike Croshaw at 05-apr-2000 17:23:00 Category 40 - incident Under Investigation POStatus messages indicate
a history of comms failures ( at least 3 major comms failures within the last month )

Repeat Call ‘Thu 06 April 2000 11:35 by uk079674 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:35

pm states that his gateway counter has crashed again.... i advised him that as it was a re-occuring problem i would
send it to smc for investigation-he then advised me that the call was with EDSC and was under investigation and
gave the ref number of this call-the pm will reboot the counter, and continue.

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 11:38

By Barbara Longley at 06-apr-2000 11:38:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation Shelley from HSH rang for
an urgent update on this call saying it was an'A’ priority. tis a’ and has always been a8"

acs

http://pwayweb01/PatEng WebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=F-00027 201 86 a1ingian

~

POL00118219
POL00118219

Cail Details E-0003280186 Page 4 of +

UPDATE Thu 06 April 2000 14:00 by PINICL / Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 14:00
By Mike Croshaw at 06-apr-2000 13:59:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation Requested gateway to be
swapped as engineer is visiting site to add an extra counter anyway. Call ref for new call is €-0004061 124.
]OPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 18:16 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 18:17
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 06 April 2000 18:17 by UKO61809/ SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Information ‘Thu 06 April 2000 18:24 by uk080066 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 18:24
Pm called to say that gateway crashed again but this time the stop error is 1E instead of A. On Kel, this states that
they the counter may need an increase of RAM SMC advised to reboot the counter and to stop use of it if possible.
Information —_—_—Fri O7 April 2000 08:56 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 08:56
System has crashed again. STOP 0x0000000a(0x00004000,0x000000H,0x00000001,0x80851 1d6) PM to reboot
again
Advice ‘Sat 08 April 2000 12:54 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Sat 08 April 2000 12:54

PM calling to advise that the gateway counter has crashed. The system has gone to the blue setup screen, stop
message 0x0000000a, advising hard reboot.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 by uk079782 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group CFM3 re assigned for action
JOTLCLOSE —_-Mon 10 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL/ Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:38
NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Mike Croshaw at 10-apr-2000 11:34:00 Category 100 - Route call to CFM SSC unable to ping this site. Please
pass to CFM3 again to check comms - counter has been swapped 3 times and crashes are still occurring, this
suggests consistent ISDN failure. Please perform an end to end check of the line. HARDWARE FAULT
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:38 by PINICL/ Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:38

OT! monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to uk080012 (HSH1)
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:44 by uk059368/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:44

Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSHt to David John Flood, Group HSH1
Reassigning for action.

IREASSIGN: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45 by uk059368 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45,

Call # £-0003280186 was Reassigned from David John Flood, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning for furthe
progression. Please route to CFM as requested.

Information Mon 10 April 2000 11:45 by uk059368/ HSH1
Printed off and handed call to SMC.

Information - Mon 10 April 2000 11:39 by uk061353 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:39
passing this call to CFM3 as per SSC update.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:40 by uk061353 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:40
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:46 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:46
Call # €-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN

information Mon 10 April 2000 11:52 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:52

Re-tested comms to site, we are seeing normal call clearing on the ISDN line and counter is also accepting small
and large packets, comms to site working okay.

JREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 12:04 by contin3 / CFM3. Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 12:04
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group SMC1

Saved: Thu 06 April 2000 18:23

Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 14:29 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved:Mon 10 April 2000 14:29
Call # E-0003280186 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1
ICLOSE Mon 10 April 2000 14:31 by uk059129 / SMC1

Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 14:31
Call Close by Shaun Jowett: I have spoken to the PM and everything now seems to be functioning correctly.

This.call has remarks

N

acl

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0003280186 TNKINA
a

POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004100575 Page I of I

EEEMEAD pathway NR2 Archivet.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/08/00 KOL
Call E-0004100575 ©1999 ICL
Status:[Closed ‘Opened:[ Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 Shier] 153405
Severity:[3 8 Giosed:I Mon 10 April 2000 1 Customer. [1039
Priority: [0 uk061625/ SMC1
Call
Caller] MrM A Jackson Phone, Site:I 153405
Title: [Mrs Wolstem Homes - PM Login: Deparment:
Caller iC: Location:
Call Provlem Details
Cal Type]N ProbF ype: NOO2 Problem:

Problem] On Node § - 2,3 & 4 are disconnected - this was also happening on Saturday and they had a message on Saturday
“Fext:I saying disconnected from the network - the base units are all switched on seem to functioning fine. Please investigate...

Call Closure Be
Closed:I 10/04/00 15:39 I Causefos1 I
Text:ICall Close by Kyrstin Stuart: to reboot all counters.

I 2esoiution IRSOB

Cail Asset Detaiis

Asset iD: Description’
Product: Post Office ISDN Line Description;

Network 1D]

Call Activity Log
OPEN ‘Mon 10 April 2000 11:36 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41

New call taken by Stefanie Collins: On Node 5 - 2,3 & 4 are disconnected - this was also happening on Saturday

and they had a message on Saturday saying disconnected from the network - the base units are all switched on
seem to functioning fine. Please investigat

IOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 10 April 2000 11:41 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IOPEN_CALL_TS Mon 10 Apri! 2000 11:41 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IAdvice Mon 10 Apri! 2000 11:45 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:45

Advised the PM to go through all the APS and make sure that they are showing on the report - they have done
quite a few this morning so that is going to take some time - she states that the OBCS seem to going through ok
without any error messages - all the base units are logged in - Node 5 was only installed last week and is in the

back office.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 11:47 by uk063495 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 11:47
Call # E-0004 100575 was Reassigned from Stefanie Collins, Group HSH1 to Group SMC 11 Re-assigning for
investigation.

Advice Mon 10 April 2000 13:24 by uk079964 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 13:24

PMis experiencing problems with reports. Giro d/s, the report is showing saturdays giros with todays, although they
have been cut off. n/s d/s, 3 of them are not showing on todays report. Some cheques from sat, are included with
today, although they have been cut off. Every time a report is carried out, mesge comes up, the following nodes are
disconnected, 2,3 and 4. Carried out on counter 5, JWO001, CAP-3, SU-AA( Shared)

Repeat Call Mon 10 April 2000 15:00 by uk080067 / HSH1 ‘Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:00

The PM has called in they are doing checks for all the transactions they have done & decided to do a translog, they
have put in the user, and they then did a trans log for this only & no dates. Spoke to Step, she advised not-to reboot

ae at this stage, the call is being escalated to SMC and advised the PM that someone will call. They have had system
busy for over 1 hour, advised this is searching all the dates.

Information Mon 10 April 2000 15:03 by uk080067 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:03
Call escalated by S.Collins to Mick on SMC - passed to Kirsty.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 15:17 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:17
Call # E-0004 100575 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Kyrstin Stuart, Group SMC1

Contacted Mon 10 April 2000 15:37 by UK061825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:37

Health checked all counters and all were fine except counter 3's od was down, restarted it and that then health
checked ok too. Called the PM and advised to reboot all counters tonight, then if still getting disconnected
messages in the morning to log a new call for us as will need an engineer.
CLOSE Mon 10 April 2000 15:39 by uk061825 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 15:39

Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: to reboot all counters.

act

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asv?Call=F-0604 100575 rears
y

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004130533 Page I of I
CEES pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 KE
Call E-0004130533 ©1999 ICL
Status: [Closed Opened:[ Thu 13 April 2000 10:36 e:I153405
Severity:}3 B Closéd:I Thu 13 April 2000 10:40 f1039
Priority:I0 :] UK066936 / HSH1
Caller Det
Caller: Julie Wolidenhoime Phone: Site: [153405
Title:] PostMaster Login: Departmei
Calter 1D; Location’
Call Problem Detaiis
Produet Call Type:]S. ProvType:ISD02 Pro}
Type:

ProblemIPm reports that node 5 is getting an error message when trying to log on “cannot perform sesion transfer while
Text:[ processing report’.

Call Closure Details
Nom be dd I Cause[o22 I Repair [Ret I Resolution [ASO

Text:I Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery screen
navigated pm thru that. then advised pm to log off and then log in on node 5. he could log in ok.

Cail Asset Det
Asset [D:I
Product] POSS,
Call Activity Log
OPEN Thu 13 April 2000 10:33 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:36

New call taken by Matthew Taylor: Pm reports that node 5 is getting an error message when trying to log on
“cannot perform sesion transfer while processing report’.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 10:37 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:37
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IAdvice Thu 13 April 2000 10:38 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:38

Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery screen navigated pm thru that. then
advised pm to log off and then log in on node 5. he could log in ok.

MODIFY Thu 13 April 2000 10:40 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:40
Call information modified by Matthew Taylor Severity: from ‘2’ to '3'
ICLOSE Thu 13 April 2000 10:40 by uk066936 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:40

Call Close by Matthew Taylor: Asked pm to log on to the gateway. he could log in and he had the ap recovery
screen navigated pm thru that. then advised pm to log off and then log in on node 5. he could log in ok.

208

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/Call Details acn?Call=F_N0N4 12622 Taine inn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004052195 Page I of i

Pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOQHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 HTL.
Call E-0004052195 ©1999 ICL
Status:I Closed Cpened:] Wed 05 April 2000 17:53 Site:] 153405
Severity:]1 D Closed:[Thu 13 April 2000 17:21 Customer-} 1039
Priority:[0 CSR/Feam: I uk052436 / UKSS2
Galler Detaiis
Catier:]Mr M A Jackson Phone! Site:] 153405
Ti Login: Bepartmens:I
Caller 1D: Location:

Call Problem Details
PTOI Cail Types] ProbType:ICC24

ProblemIOBC work schedule. Engineer to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to increase the number of counters from 4 to 5. Additional counter
Text:Iequipment shipped to PRE02 FAO Imraan Rawat 5/4/00.

Calt Closure Det

(] 13/04/00 17:21 [___Cause:[completed [__Bepaifa27 I utton:] RSO3
y Text:[ Call Close by L. Betts: OBC work complete
Cail Asset Detaiis
wa =
Asset ID: Description: IOBCS Serial No:
Product [OBCS Description: }OBCS Newark 1D:
Call Act
OPEN Wed 05 April 2000 17:49 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:53

New call taken by L. Betts: OBC work schedule. Engineer to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to increase the number of counters from
4 to 5. Additional counter equipment shipped to PRE02 FAO Imraan Rawat 5/4/00.

IREASSIGN Wed 05 April 2000 17:58 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:58
Call # E-0004052195 was Reassigned from L. Betts, Group UKSS2 to Group UKSS2 Reassigned for engineer allocation.

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 08:59 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 08:59
Call # €-0004052195 was Reassigned from Group UKSS2 to Group UKSS1 Reassigning for allocation to engineer
(Imraan Rawat).

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 09:50 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 09:48
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 07-04-2000 12:30:00 Engineer 064008 allocated

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:31 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:30
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 15:46:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

REASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 14:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 14:37
The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 07-04-2000 16:02:00 Engineer 051286 allocated

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 15:20 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 15:19

f* Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 07-04-2000 15:14:00 ** [No Remark entered.]
UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 15:20 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 15:19
ad ** [Engineer 051286 Logged On]

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
‘obc counter increase completed

UPDATE Fri 07 April 2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
counter config change completed

JUPDATE ~ Fri 07 April’2000 17:40 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
Work completed

IENG VISIT Fri 07 April 2000 15:14 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:29
counter config change completed Calll closure code of completed and repair code 827

IREASSIGN Fri 07 April 2000 17:38 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 07 April 2000 17:38
OTI monitor reassigned this cal from Dispatch 1 to uk052436 (UKSS2)

CLOSE Thu 13 April 2000 17:21 by uk052436 / UKSS2 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 17:21

Call Close by L. Betts: OBC work complete

This. call has remarks

204

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-0004057195 DINK INO
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Call Details E-0004110915

Page I of 2

EESTI pathway NR2 Archives.oa on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 OL
Call E-0004110915 ©1999 ICL
Status:]Closed Opened:I Tue 11 April 2000 13:26 Site: ]153405
Severity:I3 B Closed: [Mon 17 April 2000 12:25 Cusiomer:[1039
Priority:[0 CSRTeam:IUK061916 / SMC1
Mr M A Jackson Site:] 153405
I PostMaster Department:
Catter ID: Location:

Call Problem Detai's
Product Type: CalType[N I Probtype:INDO3 L
Problem Text: [please allocate engineer to site to check cables and land connections to counters
Call Closure Details
Closed: ] 17/04/00 12:25 [L__Cause:fos2
Text: [Call Close by Russell King: Call can be closed.

Cail Asset Detaiis

Description: [Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Seria} No:]7933797
: [PATICLX365/4008 Description: IMulti Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Newwork 10:
Cal! Activity Log
OPEN = Tue 11 April 2000 13:23 by uk080014/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:26
New call taken by Mahesh Patel: please allocate engineer to site to check cables and land connections to counters,
information Tue 11 April 2000 13:28 by uk080014/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:28

aston from smc requested this to be passed to UKSS1
REASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 13:28 by uk080014/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 13:29
‘Call # E-0004110915 was Reassigned from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group UKSS1 reassigning per instruction
information Tue 11 April 2000 14:57 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 14:57
wa04111053
IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 14:57 by uk053128 / UKSS2 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 14:58
Call # E-0004110915 was Reassigned from Group UKSS1 to Imran Rawat, Group UKSS1
IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 08:30 by Dispatch 1/ Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 08:35
The projected arrival date for engineer 064008 is 12-04-2000 10:02:00 Engineer 064008 allocated
Information Wed 12 April 2000 11:10 by uk058728 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 11:10
This site has had an increase in counters(from 4 to 5) on the 07.04.00 and problem has occured since then. I have
spoken to engineer onsite, who has checked hub ports and cable connections to counters. In addition, counters have
also been rebooted. When performing reports on gateway this works ok, but when attempting on any other counter an

error message is displayed ' The following nodes are disconnected on counter? and 4’ when using counter 5. Health
check performed and appear to ping ok on counters.

ENG VISIT Wed 12 April 2000 09:00 by 064008 / ENGINEERS Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 10:00
pls pass to SMe att Aston. engineer has confirmed this is a software fault. Call closure code of configurat and repair
code 919

IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 16:42 by Dispatch 1 /
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to uk080014 (HSH1)
IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 21:58 by 062457 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 21:59

Call # £00041 10915 was Réassignied from Mahesh Patel, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reasigning for attention of
Aston as requested by engineer.

Information Mon 17 April 2000 04:05 by UK061916/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:05,

Problem is that Gateway not recognising the existence of Counter 5. Will send to SSC for them to investigate registry to
see if itis correct, i.e. this was originally a 4 counter site so Gateway was configured to recognise itself and the 3 other
counters, registry should've been updated so Gateway recognises a fifth counter. SSC: if this is not the case, could the
registry be updated, please.

ReOpen OT! Mon 17 April 2000 04:08 by UKO61916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:08

Problem is that Gateway not recognising the existence of Counter 5. Will send to SSC for them to investigate registry to
see if itis correct, i.e. this was originally a 4 counter site so Gateway was configured to recognise itself and the 3 other

counters, registry should've been updated so Gateway recognises a fifth counter. SSC: if this is not the case, could the
registry be updated, please.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 04:09 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:09

Call # E-00041 10915 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1 reassigning for investigation and action
information Mon 17 April 2000 04:09 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 04:09

PLease check registry to see if gateway configured to recognise 5 counters not 4 as number of counters has been

increased by one

http://o>wavweb01/PatEnaWebNR?/CallNetails acn?Call=F.0NN4 110015 aac

Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 16:42

POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004110915 Page 2 of 2

age 2 0)

JOTI_CLOSE Mon 17 April 2000 11:36 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 11:36

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME By
Pat Carroll at 17-apr-2000 11:24:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault Gateway swapped all is ok PM Happy

Please Close.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 11:36 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 11:36
OTI monitor reassigned this Call from PINICL to UK061916 (SMC1)

CLOSE Mon 17 April 2000 12:25 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 12:25

Call Close by Russell King: Call can be closed.

This. call has remarks

oo

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-00041 10915 DiNBINO
POL00118219

POLO0118219
Call Details E-0004141583 Page I of 2
EEEEREB pathway NR2 Archived.oa on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 HTL
Call E-0004141583 ©1999 ICL
Status:IClosed Opened:I Fri 14 April 2000 17:01 Site: I 153405
Severity:]4 A Closed:IMon 17 April 2000 10:20 Customer: }1039
Priority:I99 CSR/Team: I uk079832 / HSH1
Catler:IPat Car Phone: I Site: 153405
Title:ISSC Login; Cepartment:
Gatier 1D:] Location: I

Call Problem Detaits
Product Type] I Call Type:[S I ProbType:[SD02 1
Problem Text:I Repeated blue screen on Gateway. PLease replace gateway UNit.

Call Closure Details

Ciosec:] 17/04/00 10:20 J Causeftaiture I Repacfe2t I Resolution: [RSO3
Text:I Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.
Call Asset Detai
Asset iD:} 1534051 Description: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Seria No:I7933797
Prox PATICLX365/400B Description: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network ID:

Call Acti

ity Log
lOPEN Fri 14 April 2000 16:59 by uk080069 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:01

New call taken by Alex Common: Repeated blue screen on Gateway. PLease replace gateway UNit.
IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2090 17:03 by uk080069 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:04

Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Alex Common, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning to UKSS via
SMC. This call is a A priority call at request of caller from SSC. The caller reports this needs to be done tomorrow.
IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:20 by UK061815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:20

Call # €-0004141583 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Daniel Sales, Group SMC1
IContacted Fri 14 April 2000 17:21 by UK061815/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:21

contacted po - hours tomorow are 9-12:30. monday’'s are - 9-5:30pm with no lunches.
Recommend Fri 14 April 2000 17:26 by UK061815/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:26

build is 2.2, recommend engineer to site to swap out gateway counter at this site as recommended by 3rd lin pat carroll
Information Fri 14 April 2000 17:28 by UK061815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:28

voiced Shirley @ ukss of this call.
REASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 17:31 by UK061815 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:31

Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Daniel Sales, Group SMC1 to Group UKSS
IMODIFY Fri 14 April 2000 17:24 by UK061815/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:31

Call information modified by Daniel Sales Action Group: from "SMC1' to 'UKSS' CSR ID: from ‘uk061815" Product ID:
from 'PATICLX365/400C’ to 'PATICLX365/4008' Prod. Descr.: from "Standard Counter 400 - Live PO Sites’ to”
information Fri 14 April 2000 17:38 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:38

Have spoken to Pat Carroll as to why this call is an A priority and he has said that the gateway is crashing several times
a day and he would like a working base unit in before Energis go in on Monday.
IMODIFY Fri 14 April 2000 17:40 by UK035161 / UKSS. Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:41

Call information modified by Shirley Hunton Call Type: from 'H' to 'S' Serial #: to '7933797' Tag: to '1534051" Problem
Type: from 'HDO1' to 'SD02" Product Type: from 'PTO3' to" — _—
IREASSIGN Fri 14 Aprit 2000 17:41 by UK035161 / UKSS Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:41

Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Group UKSS to Group UKSS1
IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 18:02 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 18:04

The projected arrival date for engineer 051286 is 15-04-2000 09:00:00 Engineer 051286 allocated
UPDATE Sat 15 April 2000 09:27 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 09:31

Engineer 051286 despatched to site at 15-04-2000 09:25:00 ** {No Remark entered.)
UPDATE —_ Sat 15 April 2000 10:30 by Dispatch 1 / Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 10:33

Engineer 051286 arrived on site at 15-04-2000 10:28:00 ** (Engineer 051286 Logged On]
ENG VISIT Sat 15 Apri! 2000 10:30 by 051286 / ENGINEERS Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 11:40

** [No Remark entered] Call closure code of failure and repair code 821
IREASSIGN Sat 15 April 2000 11:53 by Dispatch 1 /
OTI monitor reassigned this call from Dispatch 1 to UK035161 (UKSS)
IREASSIGN Sat 15 April 2000 12:07 by GB506518 / UKSS2 Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 12:07

Cail # £-0004141583 was Reassigned trom Shirley Hunton, Group UKSS to Alex Common, Group HSH1 passing back
to close - please check engineer times

SUSPEND Sat 15 April 2000 18:59 by uk080010/ HSH1
Call suspended by Saeed Musa suspending until further pm contact

Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 11:53

Saved: Sat 15 April 2000 18:59

een

al2

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?Call=F 0004141523 INE ION
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004141583 Page 2 of 2
IRELEASE = Mon 17 April 2000 10:18 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:18
Call released by Anthony Marsh: for pm contact
IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 10:18 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:19
Call # E-0004141583 was Reassigned from Alex Common, Group HSH1 to Anthony Marsh, Group HSH1 for PM
callback
vice Mon 17 April 2000 10:19 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:19
Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.
ICLOSE Mon 17 Aprit 2000 10:20 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 10:20

Call Close by Anthony Marsh: Calling PM who advised that the call can be closed off.

This call has remarks

Q13.

httn://nwavweh0 1 /PatEnaWehNR7/CallNetaile aen%Call-E ANAAT ASO? AL incinn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004101494 Page I of 3

EES pathway NR2 Archive4.0a on pwayweb0t PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 $C
Call E-0004101494 ©1999 ICL
Staius:IClosed Opened:} Mon 10 April 2000 16:46 21 153405,
Severity:]4 A Closed:IWed 19 April 2000 12:48 Customer: I1039
Pricrity:I99 CSR/Teain: }uk079701 / HSH1
Catler Details
Calier:I Mr M A Jackson Phone: GRO I i Site:] 153405
Login: Department,
Cailer ID: Location:]
Cail Problem Details
Product Cali Type:IN ProbType:INDO2 Problem:
Type:

ProbiemI Mike Croshaw at SSC rang on behalf of this FAD to say wants this call routed to CFM so that they can liaise with
Text:I Energis re the quality of teh ISDN line as the line seems to be losing Packets on standard Ping tests.

Call Closure Details

‘Closed: ] 19/04/00 12:48 [_ Cause:[NoCode [Reps [
Text: I Call Close by Lyndsey Eliot: Call closed as per instruction in call log.
Call Asset Deta
Asset id: Description: Seriai No:
Prox Post Office ISDN Line Description: New ID,

Call Activity Log
IOPEN Mon 10 April 2000 16:43 by UKO61916/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:46

New call taken by Russell King: Mike Croshaw at SSC rang on behalf of this FAD to say wants this call routed to

CFMS so that they can liaise with Energis re the quality of teh ISDN line as the line seems to be losing Packets on
standard Ping tests.

information Mon 10 April 2000 16:49 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:49
Wants call routed to CFM3 for urgent investigation and escalation to Energis.

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:50 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:51
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Russell King, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1

IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:51 by UKO61916/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:52
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3 reassigning for urgent investigation
Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:53 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:53

Can BT please perform testing on this ISDN line as we suspect that there seems to be a line quality problem, due
to packets being lost during ping tests. The line is up and we are seeing normal call clearing, but there are regular
losses when we send large packet transmissions to the counter. BF

Information ‘Mon 10 April 2000 16:56 by UK061916/ HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:56
Voiced CFMS to ‘A’ priority. Also paged Duty Manager. Informed Jovan of ‘A’ priority.
Information Mon 10 April 2000 16:53 by uk038350 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:53

We are unable to ping this site can Energis please investigate. ISDN no :-01253852484 FAD code:-153405, Call
clearing code:- Ox8495 -'Call Rejected’ Can BT check CLI is enabled & in CUG. Thanks, cl@cfm3.

information Mon 10 April 2000 16:57 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:57
ISDN number for this counter is 01253 852 484. BF
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:55 by uk038350 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:55

Call # £-0004101494 was Reassigned trom Group CFM3 to Group CFM4-See previous text for details: Thanks :*

).cfm3.
IREASSIGN Mon 10 April 2000 16:58 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 16:58
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4 Reassigning for progression. BF
Information Mon 10 April 2000 17:10 by uk079868 / HSH1 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 17:10
please page duty manger again at 09.00 11/4/00 if not resolved
Information Mon 10 Aprit 2000 17:27 by eng004/CFM4 Saved: Mon 10 April 2000 17:27
Energis Update: Energis Ref REQ821 16, BT Ref PL95334, BT are testing line and checking CLIP etc
Information Tue 11 April 2000 10:53 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:53

Energis Update, BT have run tests on line this morning and confirm there is no problem with the quality of this line.
The CLIP has always been enabled.

IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 10:55 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:56

Call # £-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFM3 as per below
update from BT.

IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 10:41 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 10:41

Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN
Information Tue 11 April 2000 11:24 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 11:24
Mike Crowshaw currently having counter re-booted. BF

alu -

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Cal] =E-0004 101494 LINKIN

Call Details E-0004101494

Information Tue 11 April 2000 11:29 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 11:29
Counter rebooted, Now comms appears to be okay, Voiced Mike Croshaw at SSC. Can this call be passed onto
Mike at SSC for further action

IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 11:31 by contin / CFM3 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 11:32
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group SMC1

Information _—- Wed 12 April 2000 03:20 by UKO61148 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 03:20
Preformed health check returned large and small packets sucessfully, Object dispatcher is alive. Comms now ok
after counter reboot. Call needs to be assigned to EDSC1.

Information _—- Wed 12 April 2000 16:37 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 16:37
Energis have called regarding this fault. Although the current comms problem now appears to have been resolved,
energis would like to send out a nortel engineer to this site to investigate further. The reason being this site is
suspected to have intermittent comms problems, please state access times in call and reassign back to cfm3 so
that we can arrange site access with energis. I believe Martin Southern (energis) and Mike Crowshaw are currently
arranging access.

Information Thu 13 April 2000 03:01 by uk061918 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 03:01
Shift handover updated to ask dayshift to deal

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 07:34 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 07:35
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

REASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 07:35 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 07:35
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned trom Group SMC1 to Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1

Information ‘Thu 13 April 2000 08:24 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:24
Tried to contact the PO, but there is no reply., will try again later.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 08:45 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:47
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IContacted Thu 13 April 2000 08:47 by UKO61809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:47
Contacted the PO to gain access times, The PM is no longer mr jackson, the new PM is MR HARRISON. Mrs
harrison still works at the PO, but they no longer own the business.

JAccess Times Thu 13 April 2000 08:48 by UKO61809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:48
‘The PO is,open from Gam - 5:30pm. mon-fri.

IREASSIGN: Thu 13 April 2000 08:49 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:49
Call # E-0004 101494 was Reassigned from Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1 to Group CFM3

Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:03 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
Please refer to previous updtae regarding site access.

IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:08 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4

Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:03 by uk059960 / CFM3 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:03
As per previous update regarding access times.

REASSIGN —_—_Thu 13 April 2000 09:06 by uk059960 / CFM3. Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:06
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM to Group CFM4

information Thu 13 April 2000 09:34 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:34
Energis Update: Energis NMC have been advised of site access times.

Information ‘Thu 13 April 2000 14:25 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 14:25
Energis Update: Nortel engineer is booked to go to site on 14/4/00 between 09:00-12:00.

Information _—_Fri 14 April 2000 16:01 by eng004 / CFM4 ‘Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:01
Energis Update: Nortel engineer has been to site, but did not have the right kind of tester, this has now been
couriered to Nortel. They will go back to site on Monday and run tests with Energis engineer. There will be no need
to take cot down for three days as originally believed. Engineer dealing with this is Bob Tattersall will advise of ETA
when known.

Information _—Fri 14 April 2000 17:01 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 17:01
Enero Update: Energis NMC have confirmed Nortel engineer Bob Tatersal will be attending site on 17/400 @

Information Mon 17 April 2000 11:15 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 11:15
Energis Update: ETA for engineer to go to site is 12:30 today. It is also possible that a BT engineer will also attend
site.

Information Mon 17 April 2000 14:34 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 14:34
Energis Update: Norte! engineer and BT engineer have been to site. Fault has been seen on fine between site and
exchange. The line however tests as clear between exchange and site. BT have raised a task for the wiring pairs
between exchange and site to be replaced and for the line into site to be recrimped,

information Mon 17 April 2000 16:36 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:36
Energis Update: BT have advised this is stil in hand with their line engineers.

Information ‘Tue 18 April 2000 13:46 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:46
Energis Update: BT have confirmed wiring work was completed yesterday, Engineer went to site today to retest and
has confirmed line is now working properly.

IREASSIGN —_—Tue 18 April 2000 13:47 by eng004/ CEM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:47
Call # €-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFMS3 for retesting as
per BT's clearance.

Information Tue 18 April 2000 13:30 by uk0S8987 / CFM1 Saved: Tue 18 Apri! 2000 13:30
Confirmed, Comms to counter successtul with '0x8090 Normal call clearing’ obtained. Thanks. JR.

POL00118219
POL00118219

Page 2 of 3

als

http://pwayweb01 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asn?C-all=F-0004101404 aincinn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004101494

Page 3 of 3

IREASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 13:31 by uk058987 / CFM1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:31
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group SMC1
Information Tue 18 April 2000 15:29 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 15:29
Performed health check - ping + wping successful.
information Tue 18 April 2000 15:39 by UK061356 / SMC1
Passing call to EDSC fao M. Croshaw
IREASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 15:45 by UK061356 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 15:46
Call # E-0004101494 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1
JOTI_CLOSE Wed 19 April 2000 09:41 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 09:41
NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Mike Croshaw at 19-apr-2000 09:37:00 Category 70 - Avoidance Action Supplied This has now been resolved,
customer is happy. Call can be closed. HARDWARE FAULT - AVOIDANCE ACTION SUPPLIED
IREASSIGN Wed 19 April 2000 09:41 by PINICL / Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 09:41

OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061916 (HSH1)

Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 15:39

CLEAR Wed 19 April 2000 12:48 by uk079701 / HSH1 Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 12:48
Call closed as per instruction in call log.
CLOSE Wed 19 April 2000 12:48 by uk079701 / HSH1

Saved: Wed 19 April 2000 12:48

Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Call closed as per instruction in call log.

This call has. remarks

alc wea

http://pwayweb01 /PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=B-0004 101494 21/06/00
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004122249 Page 1 of 2
(EEE pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 $C
Call E-0004122249 ©1999.1CL
Status: [olosed Opened] Wed 12 April 2000 19:54 Site:] 153405
Severity:I3 8 Closed:I Sat 22 April 2000 22:09 Castomer,I 1039
Priority:I0 CSR/Team:Iuk061916 / SMC1
Caller Details
Caller] maria@ Phori ite: I 153405
Title: Lo
Caller 10:
Call Problem Details
Product] PTOT Call Type:]N ProbType:INDO2 Problem,

Problem I Arrange to put the ISDN out of service for 2 to 3 days to test the circuit on this post office - have been many problems
Text:I with comms.

__ Call Closure Datails
Clesed:[22/04/00 22:09 I Causefo31 I Repar [Aza [ Resoluti
Call Close by Russell King: ISDN repaired, commsa re now fine - call closed

[Rsi0

; Cail Asset Det
sset ID: Descripticn:I Serial No:
Product: I ADMIN Description: I ADMIN. Network iO:
“alt Act
OPEN Wed 12 April 2000 19:50 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:54

New call taken by Gary Sales: Arrange to put the ISDN out of service for 2 to 3 days to test the circuit on this post
office - have been many problems with comms.

Information Wed 12 April 2000 19:57 by UKO61826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:57
eq82309 energis reference number

Information Wed 12 April 2000 19:58 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:58
PM needs to be contacted to ask for time he would prefer this to happen and call then needs to be sent back to
energis.

IREASSIGN Wed 12 April 2000 19:59 by UK061826 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 19:59

Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Gary Sales, Group SMC 1 to Group HSH1 Please contact the po and
request the times he would like the line to be takn down

IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 19:01 by uk079832/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:01
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group HSH1 to Anthony Marsh, Group HSH1 for PM contact

Information Thu 13 April 2000 19:02 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:02
‘tryingn to contact PO for details of times...no answer, suspending call...

IAdvice Thu 13 April 2000 19:03 by uk079832 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 19:03
unable to suspend the call please contact the PM ASAP

Information Fri 14 April 2000 10:51 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 10:51
BT engineer contacted to verify the ISDN number contacted CFM and thay gave the correct number to me

JOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 14 April 2000 12:43 by 535002/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:44
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information Fri 14 April 2000 12:44 by 535002 /SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:44

€ontacted PO. Opening times Mon- Friday 9-5:30 and 9-12:30 on Saturday. It seems that Nortel has already been
to site but need to confirm the setup of the PO ISDN line etc. Passing to CFM3 for progression.

IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 12:47 by 535002/ SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:47
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Anthony Marsh, Group HSHt to Group SMC1

IREASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 12:47 by 535002 / SMC1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:47
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3

information Fri 14 April 2000 12:49 by contin3 / CFM3- Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:49
Please refer to previous update re access times.

REASSIGN Fri 14 April 2000 12:49 by contin3 / CFM3 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 12:49
Call # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM4

information _—_Fri 14 April 2000 16:07 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:07
Energis Update: See update in E-0004101494,

Access Times Mon 17 April 2000 20:47 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 20:47

BT have requested that CFM provide site access details and a contact number for a visit tomorrow, this will be at
the convenience of the PO.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 Apri! 2000 20:50 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 20:50
Call # £-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3

alr

hitn://nwavweh01 /PatRnaWehNR 2/CallNataile aon Ia ANNA199940 at incinn

Ge
ey
Call Details E-0004 122249

information Mon 17 April 2000 20:40 by uk058835 / CFM3- Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 20:40

Can SMC please provide access times and a contact name and number for a BT visit tomorrow, there
times stated earlier but these are three days old and the PO may need to be informed of visit. BF

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 20:42 by uk058835 / CFM ‘Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 20:42
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM to Group SMC1

REASSIGN —Tue 18 April 2000 11:25 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:25
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group CFM3 as requested

Information ‘Tue 18 April 2000 11:27 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:27
contacted the PM she is happy for the engineer to come this afternoon

Information ‘Tue 18 April 2000 11:23 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:23
Please see previous update re access times.

IREASSIGN —Tue 18 April 2000 11:23 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:24
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFMS to Group CFM4

Information Tue 18 April 2000 11:59 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 11:59
Energis Update; BT have been advised of site access details.

information ‘Tue 18 April 2000 13:48 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:48

and has confirmed line is now working ok.

IREASSIGN Tue 18 April 2000 13:49 by eng004/ CFM4 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:49
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFM3 as,
update

Information Tue 18 April 2000 13:35 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:35
NCC obtained to counter. Comms know working. PH.

IREASSIGN: Tue 18 April 2000 13:36 by uk058547 / CFM3 Saved: Tue 18 April 2000 13:36
Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group SMC1

Information Sat 22 April 2000 21:27 by UK061916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 21:27
Pinged all 4 counters. OD alive and large packets retumed successfully. Comms all OK.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 22 April 2000 22:07 by UK061916/ SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:08
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN —Sat 22 April 2000 22:08 by UK061916 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:09

CLOSE ‘Sat 22 April 2000 22:09 by uk061916 / SMC1 Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 22:09
Call Close by Russell King: ISDN repaired, commsa re now fine - call closed

Energis Update: BT confirmed wiring work was completed yesterday, and engineer has been to site today to retest

Call # E-0004122249 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Russell King, Group SMC1 reassigning for closure

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Page 2 of 2

is access

per below

alg

httn://nwavweb01/Pat RnaWehNiR 2/CallMatails aI AANA TINA An
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004051993 Page Lorl

EEA pathway NR2 Archives.da on pwayweb01
Call E-0004051993

PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS ~—patenqweb 21/06/00 fF

(©1999 ICL
Status: ]Closed ‘Opened:I Wed 05 April 2000 17:04 Site:] 153405
: 2c Clesed:IMon 01 May 2000 14:08 Customer: ] 1039
Priority: 0 CSAeTeam:Iuk0631336 / SMC1
Caller Det
Saller:IMrs Woistem homes Phon “GRO Site:] 153405

PostMaster Login:
Cailer ID;

Sail Problem Detai's

cailtype[s I ProbType:[SD02 L

Problem Taxt:I Caller Caller has put in some travellers cq s and it came off the soreen and she had to log in again
Call Closure Details

‘Closed:[01/05/00 14:06 I Cause[c22 I aa I
Text:I Call Close by Ross Wilmott - 7281-5500: Caller happy with the advice given call can be closed
Cail Asset Details

Product Type] _[

Resolution: ] ASB

Asset ID:

scription:
Product:I eposs Jescription:
Call Activity Log
lOPEN ‘Wed 05 April 2000 17:02 by uk079680/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:04
New call taken by Tina Brown: Caller Caller has put in some travellers cq s and it came off the screen and she had
to log in again
lAdvice ‘Wed 05 April 2000 17:06 by uk079680/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:06

the transactions have jumped to the other screen but not in her user name... also she has had a load of
transactions come up on the screen when she has not touched anything also she was doing a report and it finished
on its own and then sold a tv stamp user name jwo001 and it jumped to the clerk which is mja001 all counters...the
gateway problem is being investigated which may have something to do with it as it keeps crashing

‘Wed 05 April 2000 17:09 by uk079680/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 05 April 2000 17:10
Call # €-0004051993 was Reassigned from Tina Brown, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 reassign for progression
IOPEN_CALL_TS Sun 09 April 2000 16:26 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Sun 09 April 2000 16:27
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
JOPEN_CALL_TS Sat 22 April 2000 19:51 by UK061916/ SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 25 April 2000 03:25 by uk080068 / SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 26 April 2000 02:50 by uk080068 / SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IREASSIGN:

Saved: Sat 22 April 2000 19:54
Saved: Tue 25 April 2000 03:25

Saved: Wed 26 April 2000 02:51

IREASSIGN Thu 27 April 2000 16:32 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 16:32
Call # E-0004051993 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1

Information ‘Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:02
I did try several times to contact this office however the line merely rung without answer or was engaged.

IREASSIGN Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:02
Call # £-0004051993 was Reassigned from Shaun Jowett, Group SMC1 to Group SMC1

SUSPEND Thu 27 April 2000 18:02 by uk059129/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 27 April 2000 18:03
Call suspended by Shaun Jowett Suspending for further callback,

RELEASE Mon 01 May 2000 14:05 by UK0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:05

Call released by Ross Wilmott - 7281-5500: for closure
]OPEN_CALL_TS Mon 01 May 2000 14:05 by UK0631336 / SMC1
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
CLOSE Mon 01 May 2000 14:06 by uk0631336 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:06
Call Close by Ross Wilmott - 7281-5500: Caller happy with the advice given call can be closed

Saved: Mon 01 May 2000 14:05

a\4

http://pwayweb01/PatEnaWebNR2/CallDetails asn?Call=F-N0N4NS 1007

Aine Inn

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0005090677 Page I of I
EXEEEAM pathway Helpdesk.0a on pwayweb0t PHSPatLive on bdfel1pat01 —patenqweb 2106/00 HL
Call E-0005090677 1999101,
Status: Closed Opened] Tue 09 May 2000 11:36 Site:] 153405
Severity [38 Ciosed:I Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 Gustomer: [1039
Priority:I0 CSAvTeam:[uK0618017 SMC1
Caller De
Caller] Roger Harrison Phone ite:] 153405
Title: PostMaster Login’ Department:
Caller 1D: Location:
= Cail Problem Detaiis
PTO3 Cal Types Prob¥ype:]SD01 Problem:
Stop: 0x0000000A (0xAZA2A2, 0x000000FF,0x00000001,0x00000000837DC4) ROL not less or equal” message on
t:I blue screen on gateway station. No-one was logged on atthe time.
Call Closure Details
Ctosed:] 10/05/00 00:23 [ Cause[c22 I Repair:[Roa I Resoiuton:[RS02
Text:I Call Close by Wayne Bragg: NT blue screen stop0x000000a, rebooted.
Call Assat Details
‘Asset ID? Description, Serial No]
Product I PATICLX365/400B Description: I Multi Counter Gateway 400 - Live PO Sites Network iD:
Call SLA Details
SLA] Hour / Cleay call within 8 hours Contract SLAIN [0800-2000

iN
ICLOSE (Clear call)

Call Activity Log
JOPEN Tue 09 May 2000 11:28 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:36
New call taken by uktemp21: "Stop: 0x0000000A (0xA2A2A2,0x000000FF,0x00000001,0x00000000837DC4) RAL
not less or equal." message on blue screen on gateway station. No-one was logged on at the time.
Information Tue 09 May 2000 11:45 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:45

Yesterday moming when office was opened, gateway counter was at screen for insertion on PMMC card. Site has
been live since early Feb.

JOPEN_CALL_TS Tue 09 May 2000 11:47 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:48
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

IAccess Times Tue 09 May 2000 11:48 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:48
Open 9am-5.30pm Mon-Fri and 9am-12.30pm Sat. Not closed at lunchtimes

Information Tue 09 May 2000 11:50 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:50
Site has had about 9 replacement gateway stations since going live.

JAdvice Tue 09 May 2000 11:56 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:56
Advised reboot of gateway counter. Reboot OK.

IREASSIGN Tue 09 May 2000 11:57 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:58
Call # E-0005090877 was Reassigned from uktemp21, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 Reassigning for investigation

MODIFY Tue 09 May 2000 11:58 by uktemp21 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 09 May 2000 11:59
Call information modified by ukternp21 CSR ID: Counter Aff.: to '1"

IREASSIGN Wed 10 May 2000 00:19 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:19
Call # £-0005090677 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Wayne Bragg, Group SMC1

JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 10 May 2000 00:19 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:22
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Information Wed 10 May 2000 00:22 by UK061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:22
counter issues under investigation with e-0004110130

MODIFY Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 by UKO61801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:23
Call information modified by Wayne Bragg Call Type: from 'H’ to 'S' Problem Type: from 'HDO1’ to 'SD01"

CLOSE Wed 10 May 2000 00:23 by uk061801 / SMC1 Saved: Wed 10 May 2000 00:23

Call Close by Wayne Bragg: NT blue screen stop0x000000a, rebooted.

G
in

aad

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWeb/CallDetails.asp? Call=E-0005090677 aineinn
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-00041 10310 Page I of 3
IEEEREGM pathway NR2 Archivet.da on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqwed 21/08/00 #3
Call E-0004110310 ©1999,1CL

3: {Closed Openec:} Tue 11 April 2000 09:32 Site: I 153405,
4A Ciosed:I Thu 25 May 2000 15:24 Customer: }1039
Priority:}0 CSR/Team:Iuktemp27 / EDSC1
Caller Det
Cailer:I Julie Ph @:} 153405
Title:] PostMaster Login:}
Caller ID:
Call Problem Detai's
Product Call Type:IS ProbType:ISD02 Probiem:
Typa:!

Problem] PM is calling due to existing problem call E-0004100575(Which is closed now. Just for info). PM was getting problems

Texi:Iwith the gateway where it was crashing a lot in the mornings. (0x0000000A). PM has got that again. Also som of the
counters are running very slow.

Call Closure Details

:] 25/05/00 15:24 il Cause:]NoCode I _Aepair:[NoCode —[_ ition: I RSO3
I Call Close by uktemp27: 17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll CALL PC0042858 closed: Category 92, Type L 17/04/2000

15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll The response was delivered to: PowerHelp 17/04/2000 15:40:19 - By Customer Calll Date and time
complete

Call Asset Deiaiis

Asset ID: Description Serial Noy
Product: unknown product Description: I Unknown Product Network 10:
Cal! Activity Log “I
JOPEN Tue 11 April 2000 09:29 by uk079782 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:32

New call taken by Anthony Leddra: PM is calling due to existing problem call E-0004100575(Which is closed now.
Just for info). PM was getting problems with the gateway where it was crashing a lot in the mornings.
(00000000). PM has got that again. Also som of the counters are running very slow.

IAdvice Tue 11 April 2000 09:35 by uk079782/ HSHt Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:35
adviced pM that SMC will look in to it again.
IREASSIGN Tue 11 April 2000 09:35 by uk079782/ HSH1 Saved: Tue 11 April 2000 09:35
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Anthony Leddra, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re assigned for action
IREASSIGN —_ Wed 12 April 2000 12:28 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:29
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 re-assigning as PM called
again
Repeat Call Wed 12 April 2000 12:29 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:29
The PM has rung back for the second time today. PM has a blues screen with the stop message 0x0..0A.
aN Advice Wed 12 April 2000 12:30 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:30
Advised PM to reboot counter for now and information will be passed on
JOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:32 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:35
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:36
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
IREASSIGN —- Wed 12 April 2000 12:36 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:37

Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Simon Gavin, Group HSH1 to Group SMC1 re-assigning for
investigation - call ¢-0004101494 maybe in relation to this.

lOPEN_CALL_TS Wed 12 April 2000 12:38 by uk080012/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 12 April 2000 12:41
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)
Repeat Call Thu 13 April 2000 08:54 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:54

The caller rang to advise he has got the stop message again this morning. this time the code reads:- STOP:
0x00000012 (0x00000000,0x00000000,0x00000000) TRAP_CAUSE_UNKNOWN, at the bottom of the screen the
message reads: Begining dump of physical memory.

Advice ‘Thu 13 April 2000 08:57 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 08:57
I advised the PM to reboot the counter and we will investigate further.
IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 08:59 by uk080110/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:01

Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Group SMC1 pm called to say his system has crashed
while putting the pin in when rebooting. please cantact pm

Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:01 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:01

Looked at kel: SParker346J.htm, cannot find a particular KEL relating to this stop message. Downloading evemts
for counter 1, which is the counter affected. Also checking web page for any errors.

or\ ~

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-00041 10310 110K INN

POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0004110310

©
w
&
w

Pag

Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:23 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:23

Looked on tivoli Web for events, The counter appears to have tried to roll out again, I have unloaded the event log
for the counter the file ID is: 33919
IMODIFY Thu 13 April 2000 09:25 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:25
Call information modified by Jeanette Cozzi Problem Description: Counter Atf.: to'1"
IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:29 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:29
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group SMC1 to Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1
Information Thu 13 April 2000 09:29 by UK061809 / SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:29

The tivoli WEB events were from the 7.4.00. Passing to SSC for investigation, the NT blue appears to be
happening very often at this site, this could be relating to the comms issues at this site.

IREASSIGN Thu 13 April 2000 09:31 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 09:31

Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Jeanette Cozzi, Group SMC1 to Group EDSC1

IOPEN_CALL_TS Thu 13 April 2000 10:27 by UK061809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:27

Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

\Contacted Thu 13 April 2000 10:30 by UKO61809/ SMC1 Saved: Thu 13 April 2000 10:30
Contacted the PM to check the reboot went OK, he confirmed to me that while he was rebooting the counter the

system crashed 3 more times. He advised me that he has had quite a few gateway swaps because of the NT blue
screen errors he is having.

Repeat Call Fri 14 April 2000 15:38 by uk080108 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 15:38
Pm rang back to say that back office computer is showing node 1 as disconnected
Repeat Call Fri 14 April 2000 15:39 by uk080108/ HSHt Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 15:39
Advised reboot
an Repeat Call Fri 14 April 2000 16:23 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:23

trying to reboot crashed twice (fist time had crash debug ,tebboted agian inserted card and pin no and went into
mode again) Now the counter said dumping physical memory with a counter counting up physical memory
complete please contact system administrator message.

IOPEN_CALL_TS Fri 14 April 2000 16:26 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:26
Open Calls Troubleshoot (Affected Site:153405)

Escalate Fri 14 Apfil 2000 16:28 by uk066871 / HSH1 Saved: Fri 14 April 2000 16:28
voiced ssc

UPDATE Mon 17 April 2000 12:15 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 12:15

By Pat Carroll at 17-apr-2000 12:10:00 Category 40 - Incident Under Investigation Energis (Jeremy Flashman)
contacted us (Wed 12/4) and agreed to have an Engineer Place monitoring eqpt on site. Energis (Martin Southern)
said Nortel engineer was to go to site Fri 14/4 Nortel Engineer turned up on site with wrong equipment (14/4) Pat
Carroll arranged for Gateway Swap on Sat 15/4 due to Multiple Blue Screens Energis (Martin Souther) said Nortel
engineer was to go Back to site Mon 17/4 11:00 17/4 no sign of engineer, new Gateway behaving perfectly but
Comms still suspect with around 5% of 2000 byte pings failing. Martin Southern has voice mail to supply progress
report but has not returned call as of 12:10 today PM Is being kept infomed of progress on a daily basis.

Information Mon 17 April 2000 15:39 by UK061148/ SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:39
As per request by Pat Carroll. Assigning call to CFM3.
JOTLCLOSE —- Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40

NO TRANSACTION DATE AND TIME WAS PROVIDED FOR THIS ACTION USING CURRENT DATE AND TIME
By Pat Carroll at 17-apr-2000 15:35:00 Category 92 - Suspected hardware fault BT Outgoing line Fault Identified!
Please can we get CFM3 to progress with Energis as "A" Priority.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by PINICL / Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40
OTI monitor reassigned this call from PINICL to UK061809 (SMC1)

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:40 by UKO61148 / SMC1 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:40
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group EDSC1 to Group CFM3

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:45 by uk058353 / CFM3. Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:45
Call # E-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group CFM3 WIGAN

information Mon 17 April 2000 15:50 by uk058353 / CFM3. Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:50

Please refer to previous call information. This appears to be an intermittent fault as comms to this outlet on ISDN
01253852484 are failing sometimes and passing on other occassions either with 0x8090 or 0x8290 - Normal Call
Clearing. Sometimes pings pass with large packets but not small packets and visa versa. Please can Energis,
investigate this circuit for CL! presentation in the CUG.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 15:57 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:57
Call # E-00041 10310 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 WIGAN to Group CFM4
IMODIFY Mon 17 April 2000 15:50 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 15:57

Call information modified by Mark Hall Action Group: from ‘CFM3 WIGAN’ to ‘CFM4' CSR ID: Problem Description:
Severity: from '3' to ‘4’

information Mon 17 April 2000 16:23 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:23
Energis Update: This is a duplicate of calls E-0004122249 and E-0004101494, this issue is currently in hand with
BT.

IREASSIGN Mon 17 April 2000 16:24 by eng004 / CFM4 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:24

Call # £-0004110310 was Reassigned from Group CFM4 to Group CFM3 Call reassigned to CFM3 as per previous.
update.

information Mon 17 April 2000 16:08 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:08
As per the previous update from Energis, this seems to be a duplicate call.

Aad a

http://pwayweb01/PatEngWebNR2/CallDetails.aso?Call=F-00N4 110210 as TANGA

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0004110310 Page 3 of 3
IREASSIGN —- Mon 17 Apri! 2000 16:09 by uk058353 / CFM3 Saved: Mon 17 April 2000 16:09
Call # E-00041 10310 was Reassigned from Group CFM3 to Group EDSC1
Information Mon 15 May 2000 11:13 by uktempé / HSH1 Saved: Mon 15 May 2000 11:13
pin no raised for chase by b. longley
information Tue 23 May 2000 14:25 by uk079785 / HSH1 Saved: Tue 23 May 2000 14:25
chased barbara longley for update
ICLOSE ‘Thu 25 May 2000 15:24 by uktemp27 / EDSC1 Saved: Thu 25 May 2000 15:24
Call Close by uktemp27: 17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll CALL PC0042858 closed: Category 92, Type L
17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll The response was delivered to: PowerHelp 17/04/2000 15:40:19 - By
Customer Call Date and time complete: 17/04/2000 15:40:53 Service Complete (Confirmation) Received

This call has remarks.

223

hittp://pwayweb01 /PatEnqgWebNR2/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-00041 10310 a incinn
POL00118219
POL00118219

Call Details E-0006011093 Page I of J
SEEEEIEAI pathway Helpdesk4.0a on pwayweb01 PHSPalLive on bdtel01pat01 —patenqweb 21/06/00 #3L
Call E-0006011093 ©1999 ICL

Status: [Closed Opened:] Thu 01 June 2000 12:32 Site] 159405
Severity:I2 6 Closed: I Thu 01 June 2000 12:51 Customer. {1039
Frionty:I0 CSRiTeamI uk081125/ HSH
Caller Beta
Caller. Mr Harrison Phone: 753405
Title:I PostMaster Login:
Caiier ID:

Call Problem Detail
PTOT Call Typa:]A ProbType:[AD03

mn

PrablemIPM reports that last night he produced ONGH declaration last night and it showed some things which the Pm is nt
Text: aware of.

Call Closure Details
Closed: [01/06/00 12:51 ‘J Cause:[ce2 I Repair:[Roo I
Texi:} Call Close by Carl hunt: PMHTCC

Cail Asset Details

Asset 1D: Description: Sesial No.
Product. [EPOSS Description: [EPOSS Natwork ID,
Call SLA Details
‘SLAZ]NO SLA7Ng SLA defined for this call. Contract SLA?:N Coverage Plan,
SLA Met?:}Y SLA {mins}:}18 Non-SLA Time
Cal Activity Log
lOPEN Thu 01 June 2000 12:28 by uk081125/ HSH1 ‘Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:32

‘New call taken by Carl hunt: PM reports that last night he produced ONCH declaration last night and it showed some things
which the Pm is nt aware of.

Advice Thu 01 June 2000 12:35 by uk081125/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:35

PM printed report last night and it shows cash declaration for Sunday which has duplicated Saturday, and Monday(bank
holiday)it Zeroed total but it shows somebody declared @ 8:50 on monday. on Tues it showed correct figure but duplicated
figure on Wednesday.

ICLEAR Thu 06 January 2000 12:50 by uk081125 / HSH1 Saved: Thu 06 January 2000 12:50

Advised PM that there is an error with ONCH declarations @ the moment and problem should be sorted by Friday, the PM.
will contact back if problems persist.

ICLOSE Thu 01 June 2000 12:51 by uk081125/ HSH1 Saved: Thu 01 June 2000 12:51
Call Close by Carl hunt: PMHTCC

224

http://pwayweb0 1/PatEnqWeb/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000601 1092 av inc inn
POL00118219

POL00118219
Call Details E-0006211199 Page I of I
SCERESEAM pathway Helpdesk4.0a on pwayweb0t PH3PatLive on bdfel0ipat01_ —patenqweb 21/06/00 4L
Call E-0006211199 ©1999,101.
Status:]Open ‘Openedi:IWed 21 June 2000 12:49 Site:] 153405
Severity:I2.C Ciosed:I Customer: ]1039
Priority:[0 CSAVTeam:] uk064729/ HSH4
Caller Detai
Calter] Juile Phone: :]153405
PostMaster Login:
Caller 1D:
Call Problem Details
Cali Type:[A Probtype:]ADO3 Probiem

PM has called to say that they need us to send a print out of the calls that they have made fo us from 7th February. They
:{are being liable for alot of money and need to proof that they have called us. They mainly need the reference numbers.

Call Asset Detais

Asset ID: Description: Seria No:
Product: Eposs Description: Network 1D:
Cail SLA Dela’
SLA:]NO SLA/ No SLA defined for this call. Contract SLA?:[N Coverage Plan
Next Target:] 19/07/00 23:59 Next Esval 19/07/00 23:59 SLA State: [Open
Cali Activity Log
JOPEN — Wed 21 June 2000 12:42 by uk081232/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 12:49

New call taken By Sheron Palmer: PM has called to say that they need us to send a print out of the calls that they have
made to us from 7th February. They are being liable for alot of money and need to proof that they have called us. They

mainly need the reference numbers.

Advice Wed 21 June 2000 12:56 by uk081232/ HSH1 Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 12:56
‘Spoke to HSH who advises me they will be able to collate that iformation for them and send it out.

IREASSIGN Wed 21 June 2000 12:59 by uk064729/ HSH4 Saved: Wed 21 June 2000 13:00
Call # E-0006211199 was Reassigned from Sheron Palmer, Group HSH1 to Aidan Heritage, Group HSH4 re-assign for
action as specified

eas

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWeb/CallDetails.asp?Call=E-000621 1199

DINK ION
aa

POL00118219

POL00118219
Call List own Cutters Seely Page I of 2
(yok
EEEEEREGM pathway NR2 Archives.0a on pwayweb01 PH4PatNR2 on STEOSHSHOS —patenqweb 21/06/00 #3
Call List 63 calls ©1999,1CL
Status: All calls
Site: 153405
Order by: Call ase
[cali Pr Severity Opened Closed Site Cal_Type Probiem_Type Problem_Coce Team
£:0001100451 Closed 32 3B 10/01/00 16:25 12/01/00 13:11 153405 Y IMo7 PATH1
}£:0001200323 Closed 0 1D 20/01/00 14:08 20/01/00 14:16 153405 X x05 HSH1
£-0001310195 Closed 90 4A 31/01/00 10:18 31/01/00 20:01 153405 Y (Mo7 ENERGI
0001310301 Closed 90 4A — 31/01/00 14:42 31/01/00 20:02 153405 Y IMo7 1PM2
£-0001310382 Closed 90 4A — 31/01/00 12:48 31/01/00 20:03 153405 Y Imo7 IPM2
Closed 90 4A 31/01/00 16:45 31/01/00 20:05 153405 Y IMo7 IPM2
Closed 90 4A — 31/01/00 18:05 31/01/00 20:07 153405 Y IMo7 POCLIP:
Closed 0 1D — 31/01/00 19:40 31/01/00 19:43 153405 Y Imo7 PATHI
Closed 0 1D — 31/01/00 19:55 31/01/00 19:57 153405 Y IMo7 PATHt
Closed 90 4A 09/02/00 09:32 09/02/00 16:32 153405 Y IMo7 patht
Closed 90 4A 09/02/00 10:29 09/02/00 13:01 153405 Y IMo7 PATHI
E-0002090481 Closed 90 4A 09/02/00 13:26 11/02/00 16:01 153405 Y IMo7 patht
£0002090708 Closed 88 4A 09/02/00 15:09 09/02/00 15:26 153405 Y IMo7 patht
0002081220 Closed 77 4A 09/02/00 21:57 09/02/00 21:59 153405 Y Imo7 PATH1
0002100075 Closed 77 2C — 10/02/00.09:01 10/02/00 11:20 153405 Y IMo7 PATHI
£-0002100136 Closed 0 2C — 10/02/00.09:26 10/02/00 09:30 153405 O op02 HSH1
0002100143 Closed 0 2C — 10/02/0009:31 10/02/00 09:37 153405 A ADI2 HSH1
0002100198 Closed 0, 1D — 10/02/00 10:09 10/02/00 10:12 153405 x X105 HSHI
Closed 0 2C — 10/02/00 10:16 10/02/00 10:25 153405 Ss spo2 HSH1
Closed 0 3B 10/02/00 10:48 10/02/00 10:57 153405 Ss sp02 HSH1
Closed 0 3B 10/02/00 13:00 10/02/00 13:03 153405 S sp02 HSHt
£0002100514 Closed 0 2C — 10/02/00 13:04 10/02/00 13:11 153405 x x05 HSHi
}£-0002100523 Closed 0 3B — 10/02/00.13:09 10/02/00 15:07 153405 § FEOS ‘smci
E-0002190088 Closed 0 2C — 19/02/00 09:57 19/02/00 10:00 153405 A ADI2 HSH1
£-0002220353 Closed 0 1D 22/02/00 11:52 22/02/00 11:56 153405 X X105 HSH1
£-0902240009 Closed 0 3B — 24/02/0008:05 01/09/00 18:17 153405 S sp02 sMct
0092241008 Closed 0 2C 24/02/00 15:59 24/02/00 16:01 153405 A ADI4 HSH1
£-0902296031 Closed 0 2C — 29/02/0008:49 29/02/0008:53 153405 S spo2 HSH1
£.0003010031 Closed 0 3B — 01/03/00 08:37 02/09/00 16:17 153405 H 001 SMC1
£-0003030294 Closed 0 2C 03/09/00 10:58 03/03/00 12:17 153405 H HD01 HSH1
£:0093020407 Closed 0 3B — 03/03/00 11:35 09/09/00 11:40 153405 S$ so02 HSH1
€.0003040085 Closed 0 2C — 04/03/00 09:43 04/03/00 09:45 153405 A AD12 HSH1
}£:0003070610 Closed 0 3B 07/03/00 13:00 07/03/00 13:05 153405 S$ sp02 HSH1
E-0003080445 Closed 0 2C  — 08/03/00 11:54 08/09/00 11:56 153405 X XI05 HSH1
E-0003080691 Closed 0 2C — 08/03/00 13:40 08/09/00 13:47 153405 X X05 HSH1
£-0003082022 Closed 0 2C  — 08/03/0021:02 08/09/00 21:49 153405 S FEOS SMc1
£-0003080170 Closed 0 2C — 09/03/0009:13 09/09/0009:14 153405 $ spo2 HSH1
£:0003100662 Closed 0° 3B 10/03/00 13:20 30/09/0008:54 153405 H 001 sMc1
£.0003190143 Closed 0 3B — 19/03/00 09:07 13/09/0009:10 153405 $ sp02 HSH1
£-0003200387 Closed 0 3B 20/03/00 10:48 20/03/00 10:51 153405 S sp02 HSH1
£-003210083 Closed 0 3B 21/03/00 08:54 22/09/00 15:18 153405 S$ spo2 sMc1
€-0003280186 Closed 99 4A 28/03/00 09:08 10/04/00 14:31 153405 S $001 SMC1
0003280779 Closed 0 3B  — 28/03/00 12:53 28/09/00 12:57 153405 S sp02 HSH1
£.0003281454 Closed 0 3B  — 28/03/00 17:58 29/09/0009:18 153405 S sp02 SMC1
£-0003310117 Closed 0 3B — 31/03/0008:55 31/03/00 08:57 153405 S$ sp01 HSH1
£-0009311246 Closed 0 2C — 31/03/00 17:35 01/04/00 09:20 153405 S sp02 SMc1
0004051993 Closed 0 2C — 05/04/00 17:04 01/05/00 14:06 153405 S sp02 SMC1
£.0004052195 Closed 0 1D — 05/04/00 17:53 19/04/00 17:21 153405 Xx cc24 UKSS2
€-0004060258 Closed 0 3B 06/04/00 09:19 06/04/00 13:37 153405 H H008 HSH1
£-0004080966 Closed 0 3B — 06/04/00 12:56 06/04/00 13:01 153405 S$ spoz HSH1
E-0004061124 Closed 0 38  — 06/04/00 14:02 08/04/00 13:58 153405 x cc24 HSH1
£-0004080448 Closed 0 2C 08/04/00 12:46 08/04/00 13:02 153405 A A003 HSH1
E-000$100575 Closed 0 3B — 10/04/00 11:41 10/04/00 15:39 153405 N Noo2 smct1

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallList.asp

bb)

lo
POL00118219

POL00118219

Call List Page 2 of 2
€:0004101464 Closed 99 4A 10/04/00 16:46 19/04/00 12:48 153405 N NDO2 HSH1
E-0004110310 Closed 0 4A — 11/04/0009:32 25/05/00 15:24 153405 S sp02 Epsc1
/E-0004110915 Closed 0 3B 11/04/00 13:26 17/04/00 12:25 153405 N NDOS SMC1
I£-0004122249 Closed 0 3B 12/04/00 19:54 22/04/00 22:09 153405 N NDO2 SMC1
13/04/00 10:36 19/04/00 10:40 153405 S sp02 HSH1

14/04/00 17:01 17/04/00 10:20 153405 S sp02 HSH1
0) 23/09/99 11:04 01/10/99 16:06 153405 I IMo7 IPM2

0) 04/10/99 11:08 04/10/99 15:29 153405 I IMo7 POCLIP:

E-9910060134 Closed 0 4A — 06/10/99.09:46 06/10/99 10:58 153405 I 'mo7 POCLIP:
IE-9910270398 Closed 0 1D 27/10/99 14:04 30/11/99 14:40 153405 I IMO7, IPM2
(63 calls) 21/06/00 12:57:10

http://pwayweb01/PatEnqWebNR2/CallList.asp

aat

aarinn
ps Problem _Co Team

Problem

POL00118219
POL00118219

10/01/00 16:25} 12/01/00 13:11 IPATH1 153405 CLEVELEYS. Martin Call Close by David Craggs: Call
dale tester call - The POM has PQA has verified this
advised that they have not site to be live
reived a tester. This site is due
to be installed on 31/01/2000.

0001200 [closed Of fr Zoroi700 14:06) I 20/01/00 14:76) I 153405] xI05 ASAT FFraining has started for gong I [Call Close by Lyndsey Eliot:
a live 31.01.00. PM wants to PMHTC.
; know that they will be getting
paid for training and how many
hours training they will be paid
for.
EDooTaId Ioased I IS] I e00AM] I -Si707700 To:T6I I 31707700 2o.01] I 783405 TMO7 ENERGISI IE-0001310105 Cleveleys Cail Close by Leanne Gordon:
1153405 ISDN coming up FPGA] ICall closed by LG.
fail, possible phone problem?
E0013 10 IGsed I] 90] I 4:00AM) I S1/01700 11:42) I 37701700 20:02) 753405] TOT TPM2 E-0001310301 Cleveleys Gail Close by Leanne Gordon:
1153405 A4 printer laser shown I ICall closed by LG
las being on a shelf under the
»Y- bureau de change there is a
vp metal cash cabinet between the!
printer and the base unit for
counter 1 and the installer can't
n” feed the cable round
E0007310 [Ctosed II 60] I 400 Am I 31701700 T2:48I 31701700 20-03) 153405} IMO7 TP M2 [753405 cleveleys, with the Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
problems with the plans e- Call closed by LG.
10001310301 there will be a
delay on their 2nd site marton
moss 187405
E0007310 [closed i lio Sioi700 14:10] I 04707100 14:07] I 153405 M07 PATHT I 153405 cleveleys. error 1090 I {Call Close by Christine Bourne:
ae gateway Cail closed - see mail to Steve
Melvin from Nigel Mobley 030700
E0001310 [Closed 7 [70 31701700 15:36] I 04707100 14:12) I 150408 TMO7 PATH? I IE-0001310605 Cleveleys Call Glose by Christine Bourne:
153405 After swapping out Call closed - see mail to Steve
gateway itis stuck at 20% error I {Melvin from Nigel Mobley 030700!
1090

POL00118219

POL00118219
_ 5
=0001310 [closed SO] I 4:00AM] I 31/01/00 16:45] I 31/01/00 20:05] I 153405) IMO7 TPM 753405 cleveleys on site (Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
a 10am...could you please cofirm I call closed by LG.
lovertime will be paid from 17.30
as this site is delayed e-
10001310195, e-0001310477 fad
153405 cleveleys
£0001310 IClosed 90] I 4:00 AM I 31701700 18.05] I 31/01/00 20:07I I 153406] iMo7 [Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
£-0001319 call closed by LG.
install for this site to be aborted.
=£0001310 [Closed Oo} [10 31701700 19:40) I 31/01/00 19:43] I 153405] M07 PATH? 753405 CLEVELYS. Call raisedI [Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
by the IP2 team ;- this site is to I_I This issue is now resolved & call
be suspended at the isntall closed. LG
stage due to technical issues.
E-0001310 IClosed OI [1D 31/01/00 19:55] I 31/01/00 19:57I I 153405 iMmO7 PATHt 753405 CLEVELEYS. Call [Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
=— I raised by the Ip2 team ;- This} I This issue is now rsived & call
site is to be released back into I Iclosed. LG
the programme at the install
stage.
0002000 [closed [I 90] I 4:00AM] I “09/02/00 08:32) ]~ o9/02/00 16:32] ] 153405 IMo7 patht 153405 Cleveleys E- (Call Close by David Craggs: Exel
10002090089. ISDN fault. When I [confirm HWA. Call closed
; 3) jactioned the tests the installer
jget the engaged tone which is
3) lok but getting a message which
9 reads “clear cause 88".
9002090 IClosed 30 I 4:00 AM] I 09/02/00 70:29] I~ 09/02/00 13:01] I 153405 M07 PATH! I I153405 Cleveleys E- [Call Close by David Craggs: Call
10002090182, Gateway isnow I Iclosed
stuck at 3%.
9002090 IClosed 30] I 4:00 AM] I 09/02/00 13:26) I~ 11/02/00 16:01 I 153405} MOT patht 753405 Cleveleys E- (Call Close by Stuart Woodhouse:
~~ 4 10002090461. Counter 3 stuck I ICall closed by SW
at 20%, 1113 error.
002000 [Closed Ba] I 4:00 AM] I 09/02/00 15:08] I~ 09/02/00 15:26 I 153405] IMO7 path fe-0002090708 153405 (Call Close by Leanne Gordon:
ST Icleveleys. exel confirm that they} ICall closed by LG.
have hardware acceptance at

this site at 14.45

POL00118219

POL00118219
Closed 77) I 4:00 AMI 09/02/00 21:57) 09/02/00 21:59) 153405) IIMO7 IPATH1 153405 - CLEVELEYS - Call Close by ben ramduny:
IE0002091220 - HFSO has [closure criteria: the te advised
advised that she can't find the issue resolved straight away
=-0002100 Closed 77) j2Cc 10/02/00 09:01 10/02/00 11:20} 153405) M07 PATH1 153405 CLEVELEYS. POCL (Call Close by Jane Underwood:
fax ref:- IP2/18119 AN. Call closed.
[Migration was completed
Isuccessfully @ 22.40 on
09/02/00.
=9002100 IClosed oO} j2c 70/02/00 09:26I I 10/02/00 09:30] I 153405] foDoz SH1 (PMs called Julie Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot:
rs I !Woolstonhulme) - Only gone IHFSO happy with advise - now
live this morning. One of the has a second query to be logged
[clerks has tried to sell Orange seperately.
/£5.00 phone card worried
because icon says coming
Isoon.
=-0002100 IClosed Oo} j2c 10/02/00 09:31 10/02/00 09:37] 153405] AD12 HSH1 logged at same time as 138 of I [Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot:
Itoday. One of the clerks tried to} IOnce I had navigated PM to the
log on this morning - now correct icon - she informed me
locked out - user error. {that it would not work then I
asked how long ago he was
locked out and she said 50mins -
informed her it will have
Iautomatically unlocked after
about 15 min
1 {Closed Oo} 11D 10/02/00 10:09) 10/02/00 10:12! 153405) x105 HSH1 gateway - blue screen - restart I ICall Close by Nicola Platt: whilst
Jand set recovery optiuons - taking details - line to caller went
crash debug - stop 0x0000000a} Idead - call ok to close
I(0x000000086 0x000000ff - the
line to caller then went dead
Closed Oo] [2c 10/02/00 10:16) 10/02/00 10:25} 153405} }SD02 HSH1 (On the gateway the screen has I ICall Close by Stuart Bygrave:
gone blue with a message that I {Blue screen and stop error
‘starts Stop 0x0000000a. message. Advised to reboot.

dy

POL00118219

POL00118219

-000210Q IClosed 0) (38 10/02/00 10:48} 10/02/00 10:57) 153405} S002 IHSH1 Pm reports that the barcode ICall Close by Matthew Taylor:
eee Iscanner and the swipe card Advised pm to print a ap report to
reader are not operational. Pm I jsee it the transaction has gone
reports that a a clerk was thru. it had not gone thru. they
lentering a barcoded bt bill and I Ihave the transaction details.
she entered the amount and advised pm Hard reboot counter
then she accidentally pressed I I3. navigated pm thru rebooting.
the reciept key and it printed a
reciept for a pre
=-0002100 {Closed Oo} 38 10/02/00 13:00) 40/02/00 13:03} 153405} ISD02 HSH1 IPM was ringing to say that the Call Close by Anthony Leddra:
system keeps on crashing and I IPM cut off due to bad line.
has STOP 0X0000000A
message.
=-0002100 IClosed 0} j2c 10/02/00 13:04! 10/02/00 13:11 153405} X105 IHSH1 IPM called regarding the Call Close by Sangita Patel: PM
=I Jgateway crashing, he started got cut off,
telling me what was on the
screen but the line cut off.
-0002100) {Closed oO} [38 10/02/00 13:09] 10/02/00 15:07} 153405} FEOS ISMC1 reporting gateway counter has Call Close by Anthony Obi: NT
blue screen message blue screen - counter re-booted
"stop..0x0000000a)0x0000029b} Iproblem resolved closure agreed.
,0x000000ff,0x00000000,0x808
I46dc6" has already happened
twice this morning and have
rebooted system - happy to
reboot again but would like the
cause explaining/investigating.
Closed Oo} [2c 19/02/00 09:57} 19/02/00 10:00} 153405] AD12 HSH1 [A clerk has locked himself out [Call Close by Andrew Titman: PMI
lof the system. happy with the advice and HTCC. I
Zo002220 [Closed of [to 22/02/00 11:52) I 22/02/00 11:56I I 153405] xI05 ASHi PMs calling tprt that she has I [Call Close by Jamie Lee: pmhic.
jentered an incorrect amt onto
the quantum machine
'-000224Q {Closed of (38 24/02/00 08:05} 01/03/00 18:17 153405} S002 'SMC1 Couldn't print due to a session Call Close by Dave Smith:
— being suspended last night, has] IEngineer is going to site to swap
rolled su & the office into the lout the counter anyway and PM
next week. Rebooted to clear has agreed closure of this call.
the problem.
-0002241} IClosed 0) j2c 24/02/00 15:59) 24/02/00 16:01 153405} IAD14 HSH1 pm has a problem Call Close by Nicola Harrison: pmI
happy to close the call,
-0002290 [Closed Q} 2c 29/02/00 08:49) 29/02/00 08:53) 153405} 'SD02 HSH1 Gateway has on screen Call Close by Paul Fitzpatrick:
}00000000A IPMHTCC:

POL00118219

POL00118219
y >

70003010 [Closed 3B 01/02/00 08:37] I 02/03/00 16:17] I 153405] DOT [SMCT PM is having problems with [Call Close by Daniel Sales:
gateway - PM has come in this I IRemark entered.] Call closure
morning, and it has bluescreen } Icode of failure and repair code
lwith a Stop code ending with 1821
I0x00..0A. PM has now reboot.

Closed 2c 03/03/00 10:58 03/03/00 12:17, 153405] HDO1 HSH1 Call being raised off E- Call Close by Shelley Hatch: pm
0001310595, as requested, rebooted following engineer
gateway workstation needs to I Ivisit.call can be closed-gateway
be swapped out. jis now operational.

0003030 IClosed 38 03/03/00 11:35] I 03/03/00 11:40] I 153405] sD02 SHI Through the transaction and the] ICall Close by Pamela Coe: PM
screen has frozen . and the Iwill reboot as advised and call

. B) screen went dead he was back if the problem persists call

entering the OBS foils received I_Ican now be closed
jin when this screen . The right
hand bank had now frozen and
ithe PM is not able to clear the
screen.

:-000304Q) {Closed 2c 04/03/00 09:43) 04/03/00 09:45) 153405) AD12 IHSH1 PM cannot see anything on the I {Call Close by David John Flood:
screen. This call can now be closed as

the problem has been resolved.

-000307Q IClosed 3B 07/03/00 13:00) 07/03/00 13:05} 153405 S002 JHSH1 [Screen has frozen twice ( prior I [Call Close by Sayeed Master:
ito that Clerk was just serving a I IPMHTC
customer) - Clerk had items in
the stack but nothing
happened. Keyboard was
unresponsive too. Clerk logged
back in and was instantly in the ;
lengineer screen.

0003080 [Closed 2c 0a703/00 11:54] I 08/03/00 11:56] I 153405] XI05 SHi Avril Kirkby Clerk rang fo say I ICall Close by Russell King: Caller
customer applying for british ADVISED to contact NBSC - call
passport because she's Polish I Iclosed
but born on USSR. Wants to
know about procedural issue
with this.

0003089 IClosed 2c 08/03/00 13:40} 08/03/00 13:47] 153405} X105 JHSH1 home care £3.00 blackpoo! ICall Close by Gaynor Smith:
home help stamps,ni icon to put] Ipmhtcc:

them into system

\

POL00118219

POL00118219

Closed

08/03/00 21:02]

08/03/00 21:49}

153405}

FEOS

ISMC1

Pm has had the system busy
jicon on for approx 10minutes.
Pm was trying to preview the
balance report, so pm can
rollover. Pm complains that on
every screen he has tried
working on has had the system
busy icon on, for approx 15
minutes at a time.

(Call Close by Santokh Chahal:
IPM is happy for incident closure.

Closed

09/03/00 09:13}

09/03/00 09:14}

153405)

‘S002

IHSH1

(Caller has turned on the
igateway and the scren is frozen
lon the riposte screen the arrow
is frozen as well . he was just
trying to log on

ICall Close by Tina Brown: pm
lahppy to reboot

Closed

10/03/00 13:20}

30/03/00 08:54}

153405,

1HD01

ISMC1

IRNM states that the gateway
crashes at least 3 or 4 times a
Iweek now, but in the beginning
it was at least 2 times a day -
[An Engineer has been out to
swap the base unit in the past
land advised that they should
have a Pentium 3 not a
Pentium 2 processor

(Call Close by Shaun Jowett:
Duplicate Call E-0003280186
lopen for an engineer visit.
Closing this call.

S}
iS
iS
jo]
leo
IS I

ly

Closed

13/03/00 09:07}

13/03/00 09:10)

153405)

S02

HSH1

Pm rang to say that the main
jgateway has crashed this
morning. He has rebooted and
this solved the problem. He ws
told to ring in to report this.

Call Close by Matthew Saunders:
PMHTCC...

-0003200

(Closed

20/03/00 10:48

20/03/00 10:51

153405)

ISD02

SHT

The gateway has crashed, it
lhas Stop0x0000000a on the
screen with a blue background.

[Gall Glose by Shelley Hatch: pm
happy to reboot unassisted

0003210

Closed

21/03/00 08:54

22/03/00 15:18}

153405]

ISD02

ISMC1

[gateway has blue nt screen with
[stop message, this has
happened very regularly and
[pm is re-booting almost
Idaily,ref:0002240009,00030100
'31,0003070610,0003080691,01
132372993,01132372903,0113
12373714, he had already begun
re-boot this morning on his own

Call Close by Seema Shah: PM
happy to close call as system is
working ok.

POL00118219

POL00118219
+ -

0003280 Closed 99} } 4:00 AM 28/03/00 09:08) 10/04/00 14:31 153405} S001 SMC1 PM states that system has [Call Close by Shaun Jowett: I
already crashed this moring. have spoken to the PM and
ISystem was rebooted and has I Ieverything now seems to be
crashed again. This has functioning correctly.
loccured within 10mins of each
other. ***STOP 0x0000000A.

-0003280 {Closed Oo} [38 28/03/00 12:53 28/03/00 12:57, 153405} 'SD02 IHSH1 Pm says the gateway counter (Call Close by Nick Winger: Close
has crashed again. this call as there is another one
lon the stack for the same
problem. PMHTCC.
-0003281] {Closed oO} [3B 28/03/00 17:58} 29/03/00 09:18) 153405} 'SD02 ISMC1 [Counter printer not working - ICall Close by Kyrstin Stuart: Has
—~ 4 green ready light on steady - crash debug error on counter.
trying to print giro report at first
: B) but then tried cheques listing
{that did not work either - not run
Ww lout of paper - problem first
noticed approx 16.45 printing
a a giro report - PM went live 07.0
0003310 Closed Oo} [38 31/03/00 08:55) 31/03/00 08:57) 153405] S001 IHSH1 [gate way turned on and has [Call Close by Simon Davies: gateI
blue screen with way turned on and has blue
ISTOPX0000000XA.. screen with STOPX0000000XA.,
advised pm to reboot counter.
pmhtc
201 311) IClosed Oo} j2c 31/03/00 17:35} 01/04/00 09:20) 153405} 'SD02 iSMC1 ‘The system keeps crashing and] ICall Close by Stephen Corney:
IS DOING 3 or 4 times a day [Duplicate call.
land is getting worse. They have}
had several base units installed
but the problem persists
0004051] IClosed Oo} j2c 05/04/00 17:04 01/05/00 14:06] 153405} S002 ISMC1 [Caller Caller has put in some Call Close by Ross Wilmott -
~~ I travellers oq s and it came off 17281-5500: Caller happy with the
the screen and she had to log I advice given call can be closed
in again
Closed of [10 05/04/00 17:53] I 13/04/00 17:21] I 153405] eczs UKSS2 I OBC work schedule. Engineer I ICall Close by L. Betis: OBC work
to site 7/4/00 at 13:00 to lcomplete
increase the number of
Icounters from 4 to 5. Additional
Icounter equipment shipped to
IPREO2 FAO Imraan Rawat
15/4/00,
Closed Oo} [38 06/04/00 09:19} 06/04/00 13:37, 153405] HDO8 IHSH1 [pm reports that BOP OKI laser I ICall Close by Joseph Fitzgerald:
printer not working ipmhtc
Closed oO} (3B 06/04/00 12:56) 06/04/00 13:01 153405] ISD02 IHSH1 [Roger Harrison - this morning Call Close by Ashley Molyneaux:
06/03/00 scre Pm htcc

POL00118219

POL00118219
5 ‘
st
0004067] [Closed 7] [38 06/04/00 14:02] I 08/04/00 13:58] ] 159405) [cc2a SHi please swap Gateway tomorrow] [Call Close by Anthony Marsh: as
~~ 4 in addition to adding an extra I [per log gateway replaced call
counter. [closed
9004080 [Closed o [2c 08/04/00 12:46] I 08/04/00 13:02] I 153405 ADOS SHi PM reporis that she Is Call Close by Anthony Marsh:
~~ I IAwaiting reboot...she is ok now
the system is back up.
79004100 IClosed o [38 70704700 14:41] I 10/04/00 15:39] I 153405 INDOZ SMCi On Node 5- 2,3 &4 are (Call Close by Kyrstin Stuart: to
4 disconnected - this was also reboot all counters.
happening on Saturday and
they had a message on
Saturday saying disconnected
from the network - the base
units are all switched on seem
to functioning fine. Please
investigate...
3.0004101] IClosed 99 4:00 AMI 10/04/00 16:46] 19/04/00 12:48} 153405) INDO2 HSH4 Mike Croshaw at SSC rang on Call Close by Lyndsey Elliot: Call
ae] behalf of this FAD to say wants I Iclosed as per instruction in call
this call routed to CFM3 so that I flog.
they can liaise with Energis re
the quality of teh ISDN line as
the line seems to be losing
Packets on standard Ping tests. I
0004110 [Closed OI I 4:00 AM] I 11704700 09:32{ I 25/08/00 15:24[ I 153405 [sD02 EDSCT I IPMis calling due to existing (Call Close by uktemp27:
problem call E- 17/04/2000 15:35:07 - By Pat
5B) 10004100575(Which is closed Carroll CALL PC0042858 closed:
Inow. Just for info). PM was Category 92, Type L 17/04/2000
Ww \getting problems with the 15:35:07 - By Pat Carroll The
gateway where it was crashing response was delivered to:
7} a lot in the mornings. IPowerHelp 17/04/2000 15:40:19 -
(0x0000000A). PM has got that I IBy Customer Call Date and time
again. Also som of the countersI Icomplete
jare running
=0004110 [Closed Oo [38 71704100 13:26] I 17/04/00 12:25] I 153405 INDOS ISMCt please allocate engineer to site I ICall Close by Russell King: Call
~~ I to check cables and land Ican be closed.
Iconnections to counters
0004124 IClosed OI [38 72704700 19:54] I 22/04/00 22:09] I 153405 INDOZ SMCT [Arrange to put the ISDN out of I {Call Close by Russell King: ISDN
30004122 repaired, commsa re now fine -

Iservice for 2 to 3 days to test
the circuit on this post office -
have been many problems with
comms,

icall closed

POL00118219

POL00118219

w
70004130 [Closed o [38 73704700 10:36] I 13704700 10:40] I” 153405} [sbo2 SHi [Pm reports that node 5 is (Call Close by Matthew Taylor:
— getting an error message when I IAsked pm to log on to the
trying to log on “cannot perform I Igateway. he could log in and he
[sesion transfer while had the ap recovery screen
processing report". navigated pm thru that. then
jadvised pm to log off and then
log in on node 5. he could log in
lok.

70004141] [Closed 99] I 4:00AM] I 14/04/00 17:01 77/04/00 10:20[ I 153405 'SD0Z HSH1 Repeated blue screen on [Call Close by Anthony Marsh:

ST IGateway. PLease replace (Calling PM who advised that the
Igateway UNit. call can be closed off.

9005090 [Closed of [38 09/05/00 11:46] I 10/05/00 00:23] I 153405 S007 SMCT Stop: 0x0000000A (Call Close by Wayne Bragg: NT

—I (0xAZA2A2,0x000000FF,0x000 I Iblue screen stop0x000000a,
100001 ,0x00000000837DC4) rebooted.

QL not less or equal."
message on blue screen on
igateway station, No-one was
logged on at the time.
9006011) [Closed of [2c 1706/00 12:32 I 01/06/00 12:51] I 153405 ADOS ASHi PM reports that last nighthe I {Call Close by Cari hunt:
; produced ONCH declaration I IPMHTCC
last night and it showed some
things which the Pm Is nt aware
of.

2006211 [Closed oO) j2c 21/06/00 12:49] I 21/06/00 13:16] I 153405] ADOS SHS PM has called to say that they I ICall Close by Aidan Heritage: as

=——I Ineed us to senda print out of I above
the calls that they have made to]

5S) us from 7th February, They are
being liable for alot of money

w land need to proof that they
lhave called us. They mainly

Ce Ineed the reference numbers.

[9006260 [Closed of zc 26/06/00 10:53] I 26/06/00 11:02) I 153405 ADIs ASHT PM has a cash shortage thatis I ICall Close by Hardev Raikmo:
held in susp acc. Susp acc nowI {Transferred PM to NBSC.
Ishows double the original PMHTCC
figure.

3000705q [Closed Of [2c 05/07/00 19:29 I 05/07/00 19:32] I 153405 ADOS HSHT PM wanted to reboot thathis I ICall Close by Roger Parsons: PMI
system was running slow when I {advised that the system is
lcompleting his roll over running slow due to the amount

lof network traffic today.
PMHTCC.

POL00118219

POL00118219

9007080 [closed 7 [38 08/07/00 00:12] I 10/07/00 14:40] I 183405 ]S [sD02 SMC Evis I [Critical event received for (Call Close by Nick Beatty: Call
a counter 3 - "The device Isuspended by Gordon Sandeman
\devicelsiscport0, did not \Call suspended pending result of
respond within the timeout Re-boot - Counter 3, re-boot
periog” confirmed by PM - Carried out
loK.
0007184) IClosed Oj 2c 78/07/00 15:27] I 16/07/00 16:17I I 153405] IK KAG2 HSHi PM had a discrepancy last (Call Close by Tina Wigens: PM
———I leek in there individual su AF I IHTCC
lof £419 they transfered this
amount out of AF and into AA
but when they balanced AF this
week it still showed a gain of
£419,
Closed 0} [38 Fa707/00 19:09} I 20/07/00 11:01) I 153405] IH HOOT iSMCt (counter printer has flashing (Call Close by Louise Bamacle:
lorange light and will not print. I Iswaped ithica due to priinter not
Paper has been changed and I [functioning at a Il, red light
put in property. printer has been] Iflashing along with a ticking
turned off and back on. test noise.
print tried, but did not print
printer only clicks.
0007201} [Closed a] f2c 2oIO7I00 12:51] I 20/07/00 13:25] I 153405] IK KA04 HSHt has discrepancy of Call Close by Stephen Calms:
as I I'2219.80pounds and last night Ipm to call nbsc ref peritas.
, B) first adjusted stock then lpmhtcc
declared it now would like to get}
w rid of disc, Also relates to
previous closed call e-
3 )) 10007181540
0007204 [Closed OI [2c 20/07/00 16:03] I 20/07/00 15:11] I 163408] [x xI05 HSHi [pm reporis a descrepancy of I ICall Close by Rebecca
I 2219.80 and has rolied over, I IThompson: transfered the pm to
[pm has spoken to nbsc and kevin @ nbsc
Iwas advised to call us back
[007210 [closed I I 99] I 4:00AM] I 21707100 17:16] I” 26/07/00 09:08] I 153405] [N INDOS SMCi FAD 183405 has not polled for I ICall Close by Adeboyega Abudu:
I 12 days since the 19/07/00. Line fault cleared by BT
Please ping and why has it not
polled
-0008021] IClosed Oo} j2c 02/08/00 12:51 02/08/00 12:59} 153405] IX X105 IHSH1 pm had an error notice for a Call Close by Sarah Harman:
~~ I giro in payment, attached to it_ I IPMHTCC
Iwas a receipt which the pm had
never seen before
Status Severity Opened Closed Site Call_Type Problem_Typ: Problem_Co Team Problem Text Closure Text
17/08/00 15:03} FD02 HSH1 pm wants a to preform a buy I (Call Close by Anthony Dobell:
back on the system but dosen't I Ipmhtec
have the buy back icon

POL00118219

POL00118219
[008181] [Close ze 78708700 13:56] ] 16/08/00 14:03] I 155405] AGOG SH? [Pm wants to know whether is] [Call Close by uxtempa: pm
correct to transfer cash into I transfering cash into a different
different su. isu.htcc.
79008233 [Closed 38 Za/08/00 18:22) I 23708700 19:28] I 155405 S006 SH1 I [Counter 3 has been frozen on I [Call Close by Rachel Murray:
‘printing report’ for 3/4 an hour I Iscreen frozen for nearly 50 mins -
advised reboot PMHTC
[900823 [Closed ze 73708700 16:40] I 28/08/00 To:44] I 169408 AGOS HSHi I IPMhas re-booted and gota I ICall Close by Amir Nazir:
blue screen PMHTCC
9008300 [Closed 36 30708700 11:04], I 3170800 12:58] I 163405 sb02 SCT I ICleardesk not run as acive I [Call Close by Nick beatly: Rang
luser detected - Host IPM, she wil reboot counter 2.
n15340500102 KEL Title: A I IMonitor for closure.
corrupt index page was
detected KEL Reference:
IMvvright5052P.htm
70008302 ICiosed ZC 0708/00 15:46] I 30/06/00 21:58] I 153405] KAOS SHT fon counter 7 trying fo balance I [Call Close by Sarah Walling: pm
and said stil showing has now cut off the giro report
mandatory report land is able to proceed.pm htc
000830g [Closed 38 3OrO8/00 17-55} I oa70R700 Te:14] I 163405 TRIe SCT I fone of the clerks 1s doinga I {Call Close by Mark Foster Pm
balance. a withdrawal that was I happy with advice given - call can
2 Jdone is appearing on the report I Ibe closed.
ww land they have not done one.
2000831g [Closed ze 31708700 15:57] I 31708700 15:59] I 163405 AGO6 ASH1 I [pm wanted to know when SMC I Call Close by Nick Raniga: pm
would call her back hice
Do0s05Y ICiosed 36 06/08/00 1752] I 05709700 17:58] I 183405 S002 SH1 I [Trying to preview a balance and] _ICall Close by Jonathan Waight
ithe screen is not moving. Advised a rebootpmhtcc
Dooezod Icosed ze 20708700 18:07] I 20708700 19:70] I 163405 KAS SH Gia I individual A2Ux no entry sign I [Call Close by Mahesh Pata:
I on office bal ladvise given was successful . pm
hice
‘Do1004g [Cosed ze DarTOT00 17-52 753405 x06 HSHi I [pm wants to reverse an ap from] [Call Close by Thomas Guy:
— another day referred to nbsc . pmhtcc
DoIO0g1} ICosea 36 Dart0/00 Ts:20] I —OB/10700 13:25] I 153405 sp02 RSH1 —I-[Caller can not gat the giro print I [Call Close by Tina Brown:
I outs and he can get 1 page but I }pmhtec
not the second
DoLoTEAI [Closed a8 TeTO1O0 13:05] I 16710700 17:06] I 153405 RDO SCT I [PMis Raving trouble with the I ]Cal Close by uktemp2®: [No
goiter Jcounter printer on counter 5. it I IRemark entered. Call closure
lwon't print his giro dep report. I Icode of FAILURE and repair

code 821

POL00118219

POL00118219
=
Do10269 Ioosed a 8 ZErI0100 16:04] I 01/11/00 16:55] I 169405] SO02 ASHt pm stock unit aa has a big all Close by Hugh Evans: pm
discrepancies and stock unit rj I Istock unit aa has a big
has loads of stock in stock discrepancies and stock unit 1}
balancing which should not be nas loads of stock in stock
there. balancing which should not be
there, PM has called back to say
that the problem rectified itself.
IPM has another problem being
invg on e-00
HoI0314 (Closed of f2e Si10700 11:57] I 31710700 12:05] I 153405 KAA ASAT pm has a discrepency inher I Call Close by Nick Raniga: pm
~~ 4 trial balance. There are all sorts} Ihtcc
lof transactions showing minus
figures. Stock Unit AA
Doit01d [Closed of [38 Dirii700 13:42] I 07/11/00 16:27] I 153405 SD02 SCT Pi has noticed that the adjust I [Call Close by Sarah Astell: SpokeI
stock figures from shared SU I Ito the PM and explained KEL
IAA are showing in shared SU I IReference: LKiang351M.htm and
RJ and vice versa. PM viewed I Ishe is now happy for the call to
the adjust stock figures in SU I Ibe closed.
5) RJ and it showed 20 x £20
ismartcreds that were remmed
WwW into SU AA on 25.10 at 11.24
5 lwith session ID 5-6
Dorio1d [Closed of fzc Oi11700 17:46] I 01711100 17-49] I 153405 xiO7 ASHt Duplicate call -0011012223 ] Call Close by Rizwan Namaji:
I Duplicate call e-0011012223
Dorio1g [oiosed of [ze D1711700 19:06] I 01/11/00 19:07] I 153405 G06 SH? call cancelled (Call Close by Martin Cawthome:
cancelled call - pmhtc
Do Closed of zc 02711700 06:13) I 02/11/00 08:33] I 159405 xio7 SHt Follow up to open call e- Cail Close by Karen Homes:
0011012223 PMHTCC
Dori02d IGosed oP ze Oa711700 08:14] I 02/11/00 08:41] I 153405 xO? SH repeat call ref €-0011012223 I ICall Close by Dale handiey:
repeat call ref e-0011012223
0011021} IClosed 99} 4:00 AM] 02/11/00 11:18} 21/11/00 14:41 153405] MCO1 IHSH4 IRNM is not happy that no one Call Close by Shelley Lewis:
amet has rang back with regards to I IContacted PO to advise of last
call €-0011012223, she has I update. Closing as resolved
been promised many callbacks
but no one has carried them
through. RNM now reports that
all the stock units have been
rolled over into the next CAP
after adjusting stoc

POL00118219

POL00118219
tee
0011027] [Closed EG) 02/11/00 11:40] I 02/11/00 11:42] I 153405] [SD07 SHI Elaine reporis that one of the] [Call Close by Tracy Mitchell:
[counters has a blue screen with} }pmhtec
the msg STOPoxoo0000a
20011084) [Closed 38 08/11/00 12:17] I 08/11/00 18:24] [~ 153405} 'SD02 SHA [call regarding 0011021303. pm I ICall Close by Ambrose
—I advises that the ssame problem} IHenderson: PM reports that she
is occuring ie they have two has been able to balance this
[shared su. The aa su and fj su. I week - still not happy - advised
They say stock from rj su IPM will log on existing open call -
lappears on aa su, and stock I IPM happy for this call now to be
{from aa su apears on 1 su. jclosed pmhtc
[0011084 [Closed 2c 08/11/00 16:46] I 08/11/00 16:50] I 153405] GOS HSH? PM says that her gateway (Call Close by Wayne Bateman:
I keeps freezing, and wants to I IPM happy with the advice given.
know if we know why. IPMHTCC.
DO1114g [Closec 1D 747171700 09:48I I 14/11/00 09:52] I 153405 AGS HSHT pm wanted to find a trans on I ICall Close by Luke Stevenson:
the 17th of feb jadvised pm that you can only go
lback 3 mounths and refered to
Insc, pmhtcc.
DOT 18g IClosed 3B 7ai11700 09:42I I 18/11/00 09:46I I 183405 [SD07 ASHT PM REPORTED THAT Call Close by Dee O'Belme: pm
MESSAGE ON SCREEN tee
SAYING THE COUNTER HAS
INOW RECONNECTED
PFOCEED
Do11207 [Closed 20 20/1770 14:56] I 20/11/00 15:04] I 153405} TROS SHT Pm reports been onto the other I [Call Close by Charlotte Knight:
number trying to transfer all IPMHTCC
{foreign currency from one stockI
unit to another
0011204 [Closed 20 20/11700 17:26I I 20/11/00 17:41] I 153405 [SD07 HSHt pm had error message desktop I {Call Close by Gillian Cox: pmihtccI
0011203 lexe application error
}oxc0000800xx77188e01 close
lor ok.
0011214 [Closed 3B 2111700 14:42] I 27/02/01 10:47] I 153405} [sDoz ASH4 [Outbound call -I contacted this I [Call Close by Shelley Lewis:
I loffice to resolve a complaint, I IClosed by call originator.
land the PM mentioned that she
has been having difficulties with

Foreign Currency, in that she
had remmed it in through other
MOP, Foreign currency sterling
Jequivalent, checked her adjust
jst

I
1
I
i
I
E
POL00118219

POL00118219
‘ )
) a)

20011224 ]Closed 2c 22i11700 16:20] I 22/11/00 18:25] I 153405 [sD02 HSHt PM rang to say that he was, [Call Close by Anish Chudasama:
trying to produce a report for IPM HTC
the redeemed saving stamp
land got a error message on the
Iscreen saying "EOD Runtime
Error 450 - wrong number of
[arguments - invalid property
assignments’.

011224 IClosed 2c 22/1100 20:00I I 22/11/00 20:05] I 153405 AGOE SH1 (Cia: want to know how to (Call Close by Dwight Clarke:

— I Imodify ttwo share SU into two I IPMHTCC
indivual SU.

011260 IClosed 38 26/11/00 23:07I I 27/11/00 13:31] I 153405 SD02 SMC Evis I [Event received on [Call Close by Gordon Forbes:

I 15340500103: Device Reboot successful,NO further
\device\scsiportO did not jevents,closing call.
respond within the timeout
period. KEL
IRColeman1253J.htm advises of

—_ reboot.

20112911 [Closed 38 28/11/00 13:23 I 05/03/01 19:06I I 153405] SD02 SHS pm said that all her stock (Call Close by Ross Willmott: Call

~~ I ]seems to be mixed up again I Ican be closed
after the upgrade.

9011207 IClosec 3B 29/1700 14:02] I 29/11/00 14:18I I 153405 [SD02 HSHT [pm reports the bar code reader I [Call Close by John Leech:
isnt scanning any bar codes. } Ipmhtcc
light works and the noise
comes on.

001 1294 Closed 2c 29/11/00 14:59) 29/11/00 15:03) 153405) TR14 IHSH1 lpm wants to know why the Call Close by Tony Mansfield:

] foreign currency sterling figure I Ipmhtec
is not on the foreign currency
su.

DOT1294 [Closed 2c 29/11/00 16:47I I 29/71/00 18:51] I 153405 AGO6 SH1 [cid. pm wished to speak to [Call Close by Samantha Calms:
Ross Wilimott regarding call I ICaller transferred to Ross
reference e-0011291662. Willmott.

0011300 IClosed 2C 30/11/00 09:32] I 30/11/00 09:35] I 153405} AGO6 HSHt PM called last night and had I ICall Close by Malcolm Goodall:

—I forgotten the reference number.I IPM wanted reference number

{from call last night. Adviced PM
lof number. PMHTC.

POL00118219
POLO00118219

ANALYSIS OF CALLS TO HORIZON HELPLINE Call Sheets (Appendix G)

Initial problem during installation was the ISDN Line. Call was reassigned several times Text of calls
says counter is now working and call closed - this on 4" March 2000. Call totally closed down 4" July
2000. No other calls logged to Horizon Helpline until June.

Had a “known problem” with reporting ONCH on 1* June but this would not have affected balancing.

Further call 21% June made following my request to subpostmaster for details of the calls made to the
Helpline (I had asked them to monitor the system themselves, report any problems and record call
numbers so we could trace any faults in the future)

26" June - subpostmaster was attempting to transfer amount into suspense - call transferred to NBSC
5" July - reported system running slowly
8" July - (Saturday) reboot needed Confirmed by call to subpostmaster on Monday 10" as OK

18" July - Transaction problem - shows subpostmaster had no understanding of effect of transfers on
individual stock units.

19" July - Ithaca printer malfunction

20" July - transaction problem advised to call NBSC (It would appear office had a discrepancy of
£2219.80 and wanted to “get rid of it”

21" July - office has not been polled. Fault on BT line discovered and cleared 25" July
2™ August - mistake in bringing error notice to account - call transferred to NBSC

2°! November - RNM called - counter needed re booting

29" November - “known problem” following upgrade re running balance snapshot and trying to adjust
stock on different kit. (This call the day before subpostmaster was suspended

NBSC CALL REPORT ANALYSIS - Call Sheets (Appendix H)

Several calls point to subpostmaster attempting to change figures on system, getting into a mix up with
it and calling the Helpline for advice

Some calls specific to taking amounts out of and putting into Suspense Account

249
POL00118219
POL00118219

2 Runnymede Avenue
Thornton Cleveleys
Lancashire

FY5 1DF

Dear Sir/ Madam 31 March 2000
Complaint

Thank you for bringing your system problems to our attention. I am writing
to acknowledge that your complaint has been logged at the Network Business
Support Centre. For information the incident number is: H10034620, please
quote this if you wish to discuss further this compliant.

a
>

Your complaint is receiving our attention and I have raised the complaint
with the Horizon System Helpdesk. I am now awaiting for comments from
them, as sodn as I have any further information, I will contact you.

Yours sincerely

GRO I

f Bethany Newton
Network Business Support Centre

Business Service Management.
a Post Office Network
Dearne House
Cortonwood Drive
Cortonwood Business Park
Brampton
Barnsley $73 OTB

Cleveleys Post Office
2 Runnymede Avenue
Thornton Cleveleys
Lancashire

FY5 1DF

Dear Colleague 28th April 2000

System Problems

Further to our telephone conversation of today I am writing to re-iterate the
responses that I have received from ICL Pathway relating to the problems that you
have been experiencing with the Horizon System.

ICL Pathway have advised me that the problems you have been experiencing are
not as straightforward as the engineer, who visited the site originally thought.
Although the symptoms looked to the engineer to be an ISDN problem, the line has
been checked by Network Support. The line is open and working with no
problems. Network Support feel the problem lies with the counter. ICL Pathway
are aware the counter has been swapped on multiple occasion’s and feel there must
be another underlying reason. The call is currently with the Horizon System
Helpdesk third line technical support for investigation and has been raised to an ‘A’
priority (which normally only applies to situations when the Post Office cannot
operate at all).

With regards to the fact that your calls were not returned by the Horizon System
Helpdesk, unfortunately due to volumes of calls currently being experienced it is
causing some outlets to experience delays before responses are made. This issue is
currently being addressed at the helpdesk through a plan of recruitment.

Horizon System Helpdesk have advised me they are in constant contact with
yourself and your Retail Network Manager but I understand from our telephone
conversation of today that you are still not happy with this. [ have therefore.
enclosed an addressed envelope to enable you to make a response to this letter at
which point I will continue my investigations with ICL Pathway.

In the meantime, if you wish to contact me please quote incident number H10034620
when telephoning.

Yours sincerely

Business Service Management

Post Office Necwork

Dearne House
Cortonwood Drive
Corconwood Business Park

Crampron
Barnsley $73 078

Claire Wray .
Service Quality Officer i

POL00118219
POL00118219

vy,
POL00118219
POL00118219

IN CONFIDENCE

To: J Wolstenholme copy: Retail Network Manager
Subpostmistress : E Tagg
Cleveleys MSPO

From: J M Wilkinson
Network Audit Team

Date: 01 June 2000

AUDIT OF CLEVELEYS MSPO

Detailed below is a brief summary of the areas examined and the findings
revealed at our recent audit.

System Good Satisfactory I Minor Major Not

Controls I Controls Weakness I Weakness
SA

XJ

4
Fs
8
a
Fy
Qa

“I Security

Stock Management

Cash Account

Cash Management

A&L Girobank
Transport Schemes
Utilities schemes
Benefits Agency

MVLs’ .
MSPOs/ FPOs only
Bureau de Change

PO Foreign Exchange
National Lottery
National Lottery Instants
Littlewoods Scratchcards
Rod Licences.

%

HIRI

sa

Oooo

Travel Insurance
MoneyGram
Personal Banking

National Savings
Royal Mail
Horizon

SoooooooOoecoOooRoeoADO

oooooooooooooopoSOoAaG
Kooooooonooooooeeeono000

or I

OIRIRIRIRIRIKIXIK RIKI

The attached pages detail a more comprehensive report for your information.
Please retain one of these reports for your information and return the other one,
signing it to confirm that you ‘ae all the points made.

Should you wish to make an ents,.
this report or contact J M Wilkinson.o

POL00118219
POL00118219

Audit of Cleveleys MSPO

An audit of the above office was undertaken on 1/6/00 led by J M Wilkinson .

Detailed below are our findings and recommendations for your information and
attention.

The recommendations in bold were made in a previous audit and had not been’

implemented at the time-of our most recent visit.

Audit Result

£16.32 Surplus. All cash, stock, vouchers and value items on hand have been

examined at the audit and found to have been correctly accepted and proper to
the current weeks account.

Security

Good security awareness for both physical and personal security. All necessary
precautions are taken to safeguard both PO Network assets and Personnel at all
times. Alarms were tested at the visit and found to be operational, the Spmr
confirms that the alarm system is tested at the required frequency. All office staff
are fully aware of all PO Network security policies and the Counter Attack,

Hostage , Money Laundering and Crimestoppers packs are available for staff at
the office.

Other Client Services

All Pension and Allowance books have been examined at the visit and found to be
in date and proper to the office. Books are given the required security at all times.
All encashment procedures are known and followed correctly by the Spmr and all
vouchers on hand have been accepted and accounted for correctly.

Horizon

Security for the use of the Horizon system is controlled correctly with each user
having their own Password and user ID. Access levels are used correctly.
All regulations regarding the maintenance and protection of the system are

followed correctly, and the Spmy is aware of contact point and procedures in case
of system failure or breakdown.

dye
POL00118219
POL00118219

Finally, I would like to thank you and your staff for the assistance and hospitality
throughout the audit.

Please sign and return one copy of this report to confirm that you understand the

points raised.

Network Audits

It would help us if you could complete the following two questions:-

1. Were the findings in this report discussed on the day of the audit?
Yes O No QO

2. Were you given a questionnaire at the end of the audit to complete?
Yes O No O

Signature

a,
Mrs J Wolstenholme
Subpostmaster
Cleveleys MSPO

2 Runnymede Avenue
Cleveleys
BLACKPOOL

FY5 1DF 21" June 2000

Dear Julie

It is now ten weeks since the Horizon system within your office was deemed to be tully operational. In
the seven weeks prior to this you were given permission to hold losses attributed to the system in Table
2a of your account. 1 am assured by Transaction Processing that all accounting checks for weeks 49 to
04 have been completed and the majority of error notices for these weeks have been issued

You may remember we posted several error notices through your account during week 12. A detailed
breakdown of the error notices and resulting balances is attached for your information. The processing,
of these error notices reduced the original amounts being held in your acceunt to £2497.94.

T must now ask that you make the necessary arrangements to repay this loss.

If bringing this loss to account would cause severe financial hardship, you may be allowed to repay the
amount by instalments by deduction from your remuneration. This is not an automatic right and you
must be aware that, if granted, no further authorities to hold shortages in your account can be issued. ie.
all further losses must be made good immediately.

If you have any mitigating circumstances or reasons why you should not repay this loss then you must
state them, in writing, to reach me by Monday 10" July 2000. If 1 do not hear from you by this date !
shall assume the amount of £2497.94 has been made good.

Yours sincerely

“Elaine M Tagg i
Retail Network Manager L

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

Aoelas

eer Stake t
x = PAS as mEd au
st§er DR we keve ance resk erbh EX. Hence. S.,shem
s cu

pace ars tie
ek iets ptene

ismene ot we were Fe wa sot Sin pcobters Cand
pack Shestch oA Seen rack Yeci

doer bckiony eee ae ~ 7 “ .
zy wyeerssives ne Bemrogors. - aid nak Kevo Dee . optees

Bene bem

i i ‘
be rephass a ns .
g-echkar, eco twa Seed Ask howe ten aoieetcteck

lance  urcioe Pie  concditanas

x toerle, Ver oles

vo sted tec VA.

Geom R90 be Pi-cu-oa---cuk Eeloemtes
a hban Lvrese dated Surely Cenach be bebe 1 hO ;
cenecdernkew . He fs mets oe peel we ore Skitio receyvi

erro vAgktzedk for Sis fenech: So bee ca He aare.

Post Office Counters Ltd.
Your Receipt

= COMPLETED BY THE RNM
Cleveleys
2 Runnyaede Avenue Manager
ays FAD: 153405

Thornton Cleveleys

Lancashire
FYS 1DF

Loss a 2a in
i- @ 500,

) CARRY A CASH ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

VAT REG No. 243 1700 02

a a ee 00.00 reported in cash account week 19

an error notice advised to the office on

500.00- 1 Table 2(a) of the cash account for a maximum period of 8
TOTAL DUE TO CUSTOMER 500.00 maorled ca.
Girne TO CUSTOMER 500. M4 ely should an error notice relating to the discrepancy be
. .09.00. If you are unable to make good this shortage at
itact your RNM and Error Resolution immediately.
Thank You and return the whole form to Error Resolution
ared from your cash account.
Part B: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE SUBPOSTMASTER
TO: Error Resolution, Operations, 3, Infirmary St., Leeds. LS1 1AJ
FROM: Cleveleys FAD: 153405
(

The shortage of £500.00 reported in the cash account dated 02.08.00 has been cleared in the cash
account dated .... oe

Please delete 1.An error relating to the discrepancy has been received on
as applicable 2. No error notice relating to the discrepancy has been received and the
“shortage has been made good by cash/cheque on ... - .

Signed ........
Part C: TO BE COMPLETED BY ERROR RESOLUTION
TO: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Confirmation has been received that the shortage of £500.00, being carried by Cleveleys
has been cleared in the cash account dated ..

Signed .......... Error Resolution

aso

POL00118219
POL00118219
NORTHERN TERRITORY
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD.

PART A: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RNM
FROM: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager
TO: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys FAD: 153405

AUTHORITY TO CARRY A CASH ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

Authority is given to carry the shortage of £1906.61 reported in cash account week 21

1. The shortage is unexplained.
2. The shortage is in respect of an error notice advised to the office on

The shortage may exceptionally be carried in Table 2(a) of the cash account for a maximum period of 8
weeks, whilst accounting checks are being carried out.

The shortage must be cleared immediately should an error notice relating to the discrepancy be
received, or made good no later than 11/10/2000. If you are unable to make good this shortage at
the end of this period then you must contact your RNM and Error Resolution immediately.

NB: Please complete Part B of this form and return the whole form to Error Resolution
at Leeds once the shortage has been cleared from your cash account.

Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

POL00118219
POL00118219

Part B: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE SUBPOSTMASTER
TO: Error Resolution, Operations, 3, Infirmary St., Leeds. LS1 1AJ
FROM:  Cleveleys FAD: 153405

The shortage of £1906.61 reported in the cash account dated 16/08/2000 has been cleared in the cash
account dated ‘

Please delete 1.An error relating to the discrepancy has been received on ...
as applicable 2. No error notice relating to the discrepancy has been received and the

shortage has beer’made good by cash/cheque on .

Signed Dated

Part C: TO BE COMPLETED BY ERROR RESOLUTION
TO: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Confirmation has been received that the shortage of £1906.61, being carried by Cleveleys
has been cleared in the cash account dated ..

setseeeeeeeee-Error Resolution

as
* POST
OFFICE
aT ~
The authority Teplaces

$2 GQ ia-2B

259,

with compliments

Post Office Network
Post Office Counters Ltd
Birley Street

Preston

PRI TAZ

Telephi

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

NORTHERN TERRITORY
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD.

PART A: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RNM
FROM: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager
TO: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys * FAD: 153405

AUTHORITY TO CARRY A CASH ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

Authority is given to carry the shortage of £6527.94 reported in cash account week 22

1. The shortage is unexplained.
2. The shortage is in respect of an error notice advised to the office on

The shortage may exceptionally be carried in Table 2(a) of the cash account for a maximum period of
weeks, whilst accounting checks are being carried out.

The shortage must be cleared immediately should an error notice relating to the discrepancy be
received, or made good no later than 00/01/1900. If you are unable to make good this shortage at
the end of this period then you must contact your RNM and Error Resolution immediately.

NB: Please complete Part B of this form and return the whole form to Error Resolution
at Leeds once the shortage has been cleared from your cash account.

Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Part B: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE SUBPOSTMASTER
TO: Error Resolution, Operations, 3, Infirmary St., Leeds. LS1 1AJ
FROM:  Cleveleys FAD: 153405

The shortage of £6527.94 reported in the cash account dated 23/08/2000 has been cleared in the cash
account dated ....

Please delete 1.An error relating to the discrepancy has been received on

as applicable 2. No error notice relating to the discrepancy has been received and the

shortage has been made good by cash/cheque on ...

Dated 00... ceceeeeseeeeeeeeeee
Part C: TO BE COMPLETED BY ERROR RESOLUTION
TO: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Confirmation has been received that the shortage of £6527.94, being carried by Cleveleys
has been cleared in the cash account dated ................

Signed :rror Resolution

as3
POL00118219
POL00118219

NORTHERN TERRITORY
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD.

PART A: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RNM°
FROM: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager
TO: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys FAD: 153 405

AUTHORITY TO CARRY A CASH ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

Authority is given to carry the shortage of £1478.78 reported in cash account week 23

1. The shortage is unexplained.
2. The shortage is in respect of an error notice advised to the office on

The shortage may exceptionally be carried in Table 2(a) of the cash account for a maximum period of 8
weeks, whilst accounting checks are being carried out.

The shortage must be cleared immediately should an error notice relating to the discrepancy be
received, or made good no later than 25/10/2000. If you are unable to make good this shortage at

the end of this period then you must contact your RNM and Error Resolution immediately.

NB: Please complete Part B of this form and return the whole form to Error Resolution
at Leeds once the shortage has been cleared from your cash account.

Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Part B: TO BE COMPLETED BY. THE SUBPOSTMASTER
TO: Error Resolution, Operations, 3, Infirmary St., Leeds. LS1 1AJ
FROM:  Cleveleys FAD: 153 405

The shortage of £1478.78 reported in the cash account dated 31/08/2000 has been cleared in the cash
account dated ..

Please delete 1.An error relating to the discrepancy has been received on .
as applicable 2. No error notice relating to the discrepancy has been received and the
shortage has been made good by cash/cheque on

Dated .......
Part C: TO BE COMPLETED BY ERROR RESOLUTION
TO: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Confirmation has been received that the shortage of £1478.78, being carried by Cleveleys
has been cleared in the cash account dated

Signed .... Error Resolution

as
_accordingly on

POL00118219
POL00118219

Retail Network Managers Office
Post Office Network North
Birley Street

PRESTON

PR11AZ

The Subpostmaster/ Officer in Charge
CLEVELEYS SPSO

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

The authority to hold an account shortage of £500.00 issued by Elaine Tagg expired on 27 September
2000. The original authority refers to week 19 dated 2 August 2000.

The conditions attached to the authority to hold an account shortage are that the shortage should be
made good on expiry of the authority and the Retail Network Managers Office informed on the
proforma supplied. To date I have not received notification that the shortage has been made good.

The shortage of £500.00 must be made good immediately. If it would cause you severe financial
hardship to make good this shortage then you must contact your RNM immediately so that
proposals can be submitted to the Head of Retail Network or The Regional General Manager.

Please complete the tear-off slip reply below and return it to me at the above address

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE
TO: Mary Billington, Retail Network Managers Assistant

FROM: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys SPSO - FAD 153 405

*I confirm that the account shortage of £500.00 issued by Elaine Tagg which expired on 27 September
2000 was made good on

*To make good this shortage would cause me severe financial hardship and I contacted my RNM

*Delete as applicable

The original authority refers to week 1°.

Subpostmaster Date

Datestamp

ass
’

Retail Network Managers Office
Post Office Network North
Birley Street

PRESTON

PR11AZ

The Subpostmaster/ Officer in Charge
CLEVELEYS SPSO

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

The authority to hold an account shortage of £281.27 issued by Elaine Tagg expired on 11 October
2000. The original authority refers to week 21 dated 16 August 2000.

The conditions attached to the authority to hold an account shortage are that the shortage should be
made good on expiry of the authority and the Retail Network Managers Office informed on the
proforma supplied. To date I have not received notification that the shortage has been made good.

The shortage of £281.27 must be made good immediately. If it would cause you severe financial
hardship to make good this shortage then you must contact your RNM immediately so that
proposals can be submitted to the Head of Retail Network or The Regional General Manager.

‘
Please complete the tear-off slip reply below and return it to me at the above address

POL00118219
POL00118219

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE
TO: Mary Billington, Retail Network Managers Assistant
FROM: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys SPSO - FAD 153 405

*I confirm that the account shortage of £281.27 issued by Elaine Tagg which expired on 11 October
2000 was made good on

*To make good this shortage would cause me severe financial hardship and I contacted my RNM
accordingly ON .........:0000008

“Delete as applicable

The original authority refers to week 21

Subpostmaster Date
POL00118219
POL00118219

Retail Network Managers Office
Post Office Network North
Birley Street

PRESTON

PR11AZ

The Subpostmaster/Officer in Charge
Cleveleys SPSO

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

The authority to hold an account shortage of £6527.94 issued by Elaine Tagg expired on 18 October
2000. The original authority refers to week 22 dated 23 August 2000.

The conditions attached to the authority to hold an account shortage are that the shortage should be
made good on expiry of the authority and the Retail Network Managers Office informed on the
proforma supplied. To date I have not received notification that the shortage has been made good.

The shortage of £6527.94 must be made good immediately. If it would cause you severe financial
hardship to make good this shortage then you must contact your RNM immediately so that
proposals can be submitted to the Head of Retail Network or The Regional General Manager.

Please complete the tear-off slip reply below and return it to me at the above address

1

Mary Billington

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE
TO: — Mary Billington, Retail Network Managers Assistant

FROM: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys SPSO - FAD 153 405

*I confirm that the account shortage of £6527.94 issued by Elaine Tagg which expired on 18 October
2000 was made good on

*To make good this shortage would cause me severe financial hardship and I contacted my RNM
accordingly on ......-...:::::s60

"Delete as applicable

The original authority refers to week 22

Subpostmaster Date

Datestamp

ast
POL00118219
POL00118219

Retail Network Managers Office
Post Office Network North
Birley Street

PRESTON

PR11AZ

The Subpostmaster/ Officer in Charge
Cleveleys SPSO

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

The authority to hold an account shortage of £1478.78 issued by Elaine Tagg expired on 25 October
2000. The original authority refers to week 23 dated 30 August 2000.

The conditions attached to the authority to hold an account shortage are that the shortage should be
made good on expiry of the authority and the Retail Network Managers Office informed on the
proforma supplied. To date I have not received notification that the shortage has been made good.

The shortage of £1478.78 must be made good immediately. If it would cause you severe financial
hardship to make good this shortage then you must contact your RNM immediately so that
proposals can be submitted to the Head of Retail Network or The Regional General Manager.

Please complete the tear-off slip reply below and return it to me at the above address

Mary Billington
Retail Network Managers Assistant
Telephone:

AUTHORITY TO HOLD ACCOUNT SHORTAGE
TO: Mary Billington, Retail Network Managers Assistant
FROM: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys SPSO - FAD 153 405

*I confirm that the account shortage of £1478.78 issued by Elaine Tagg which expired on 25 October
2000 was made good on

*To make good this shortage would cause me severe financial hardship and I contacted my RNM
accordingly on .........:eeeeeee

“Delete as applicable

The original authority refers to week 23

Subpostmaster

388
POL00118219
POL00118219

NORTHERN TERRITORY
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LTD.

PART A: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE RNM
FROM: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager
TO: The Subpostmaster Cleveleys FAD: 153405

AUTHORITY TO CARRY A CASH ACCOUNT SHORTAGE

Authority is given to carry the shortage of £3261.94 reported in cash account week 32

The shortage may exceptionally be carried in Table 2(a) of the cash account for a maximum period of 8
weeks, whilst accounting checks are being carried out.

The shortage must be cleared immediately should an error notice relating to the discrepancy be
received, or made good no later than 27.12.00. If you are unable to make good this shortage at
the end of this period then you must contact your RNM and Error Resolution immediately.

NB: Please complete Part B of this form and return the whole form to Error Resolution
at Leeds once the shortage has been cleared from your cash account.

Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Part B: TO BE COMPLETED BY THE SUBPOSTMASTER
TO: RNM Office, Birley Street, PRESTON, PR1 1AZ
FROM:  Cleveleys FAD: 153405

The shortage of £3261.94 reported in the cash account dated 1.11.00 has been cleared in the cash

account dated .......

Please delete 1.An error relating to the discrepancy has been received ON ............00cccc000

as applicable 2. No error notice relating to the discrepancy has been received and the _
shortage has been made good by cash/cheque on ...

Signed” ........sersccccccnscersereeeneees Dated ....

Part C: TO BE COMPLETED BY RNM ASSISTANT

TO: Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager

Confirmation has been received that the shortage of £3261.94, being carried by Cleveleys
has been cleared in the cash account dated ... .

Signed .Error Resolution

as
ane

Problem Updates Entered Between Juice Error and Date Error

on

Problem Number :

P10000268

Problem Title :

Originating BU:
Analysis Description:

Date Raised:
Target Date:
»Current Owner:
Problem Manager:
Escalation Level:
* Modified Date:
Related Problem:
Audit Trail:
Solution:

Cleveleys - system problems

Territories - Northern

The system has crashed and the
office has endured some large losses
in their weekly Cash

Accounts. Various ICL Pathway
teams have attended the office and
the initial thoughts, indicated a
problem on the ISDN line. This has
proved unfounded. ICLP have also
changed virtually all the equipment
at the counter and the problems have
continued to persist.

06/09/2000

29/04/2001

astlesp

astlesp

0

30/04/2001

Services Affected: POCL Infrastructure
Severity Level: 3

Received By: potters
Status: Closed
Controller:
Proposer: potters
Escalation Date:
Closure Reason: Not a valid problem
Related ATP Id.:

POL00118219
POL00118219

Issues could not be proven to be system related. Postmaster has been given notice and has now finished. All issues being dealt with by the legal

department.

LOG LIST

\NG

POL00118219

POL00118219
(
‘Date Due: Entered By: {Entered On: Action: Action Resolution:
18/9/2000 potters 08/09/2000 _ II have spoken to the Subpostmaster who has given me a history IIn March / April, the office experienced numerous problemsI ~
of the problem. with regards to screen freezes, ghost reports and lock outs.

Since then, equipment has been swapped out and ICLP have
attended the office on a number of occasions.The office has
jalso experienced losses virtually every week since the
Horizon system was installed. These losses have increased
significantly during the last 6 weeks. The staff are now
\balancing using individual stock units and the SPMR has
been undertaking a number of security checks to eliminate
other possibilities for the losses.

Te

ay

POL00118219
POL00118219

a

14/9/2000

[potters

14/09/2000

(Chec\. . v..ch Transaction Processing for errors occuring at \

office.

poke to Susan Kirk within TP. Week 19 - potential error,
‘notices totalled approxiamately #1100 in favour of the
office. #799 was due to debit cards being incorrectly
claimed. Week 20 - a number of errors totalling #215 in
favour of the office.I advised the Manager of these potential
error notices and he informed that the offices was recieving
assistance on Wed 20th Sept 2000 with regards to their Cash
Account Balance. This was to establish that all procedures
are being undertaken correctly and that the recent cash
account errors are not down to human error.

S21

>

POL00118219

POL00118219

21/9/2000

[potters

15/09/2000

[The © «+..8 approximately #12,000 short since "going-
llive".C/A balance 13/9/00 the office was #2,400 over. The
Manager thinks that the problems may lie with the Forde
(Money Changer, Lynn (Blackpool BO) who works on the
Bureau de Change is attending the office on Wednesday 20th
September to ensure that procedures are being correctly
undertaken.

«ae visit from the Bureau de Change officer from Blackpool
BO did not uncover any problems.

haz

POL00118219

POL00118219

unfortunately, Lynn from Blackpool BO was unable to

27/9/2000

potters

27/09/2000

Balas.

wydate

attend the office balance on 20/9/00 due to illness. The
joffice balanced approximately #155 up.Lynn will be
lattanding todays balance and checking that processes
including the inputing of the Forde Money Changer data is
performed correctly.

C

POL00118219
POL00118219

'25710/2000

‘Tpotters

04/10/2000

Spok. ..... the RNM (Elaine Tagg) regarding the situation. 1
explained to her that I believe that a number of the misbalances
are due to mistakes being made at the office, as numerous
errors have recently occured at the office.Elaine told me that
ithe office did not have a good balancing record prior to “going
live" on the Horizon system. She has also seen members of staff
making mistakes, while performing transactions.I have
forwarded the "error" info to Elaine who will be discussing this
matter with the Subpostmaster.

rene RNM spent 5 hours at the office trying to sort the
problem out. She is under the impression that the majority ofI
ithe problems at the office are definately caused by the office
and not the system. However, the Manager has stated that
figures inputted into line 2052 - Foreign currency - sterling
equivalent have changed!!! Therefore, Mike Baxter
(Regional co-ordinator) has made a request for an FSM to
visit the office.

ls

POL00118219

POL00118219

N : ey

21/11/2000

potters

07/11/2000

(Dann, _. .cy has received a request from Mike Baxter for
further assistance with the office.

is request has been made to ICL Pathway for a Field
Support Manager to visit the office.Claudia Walker has
visited the office and has resolved the issues surrounding the
(Communications. The Subpostmaster attempted to raise the
problems regarding the losses with Claudia, but Elaine Tagg
(RNM) catagorically stated that the losses were a PON issue
and were not the concern of Claudia. The system is also
running slower since the upgrade to CSR+, Claudia has
raised this as a problem and is happy to re-visit the office if
ithe problem persists.

9%

x

POL00118219

POL00118219

/29/11/2000

potters

22/11/2000

The £ ,« otmaster has requested the call logs from both the
[HSH and NBSC from June 2000. This is due to the #15,000
losses since June. Adele Kilcoyne is checking the Data
Protection Act to determine whether the information can be
lprovided.

nsarvey Skipsey has OK'd this to happen. I have forwarded
the call logs to the RNM 05/12/00.

820

POL00118219

POL00118219

5/12/2000

potters

01/12/2000

Elain. . agg has suspended the Subpostmaster, because she i.
junwilling to use the Horizon system. Auditors and Elaine
completed the Cash Account this week.

nvOrwarding the call logs (HSH & NBSC) to Elaine for the
disciplinary hearing.

b9e

POLO01
POL00118219

" [971272000

jastlesp

19/12/2000

ISNA, tea!

ae postmaster has been suspended. I have asked Elaine .
Tagg the RNM for an update on the current situation.

18219
ote

POL00118219
POL00118219

~

18/1/2001

jastlesp

08/01/2001

pa.

~,
-- JU/OL

1 spoke to Elaine Tagg. She has lots of evidence to suggest
ithe majority of the losses are caused by the office. She has
lalso been in contact with the contracts team etc to discuss
options. It does look like they may be given 3 months notice
‘but there are also issues around the losses and payment for
ithe three months.Eliane has said there is nothing we can do
at the moment but I will speak to her once a month to get

updates.

te

POL00118219
POL00118219

12/1/2001

astlesp

08/01/2001

*
[Upda.. v«J1/01The postmistress has called in requesting the
Icall logs from Powerhelp and NBSC.

dele Kilcoyne is looking at the data protection act side of
this.

Cte

POL00118219

POL00118219
(2/2/2001 astlesp 30/01/2001 /E-Ma. sexu: «0 Eliane Tagg requesting latest position and if t. / juulaThe subpostmistress has been given 3 months notice:-- :
problem should remain open. last day of service 28th February 2001Her defence that the

system was malfunctioning was not backed by any
documentary evidence and whilst it was her sole defence
there were several other areas of "mal practice" at the office
on which we were able to justify her being given 3 months
notice i.e. failure to repay losses, failure to run the office,
properlyThe call logs proved she had not logged any re-
curring problems and I was advised to concentrate more on
her poor performance than the credibility of the system. We
are expecting her to take the case further (she has no right of I
- appeal but has seen a solicitor to pursue her claims that the
system was malfunctioning) so although the case may seem
closed now, you may need to keep an eye on the situation
for the future.Elaine

Ste

POL00118219
POL00118219

12/2/2001

jastlesp

(02/02/2001

™
Chec. “its NM Elaine Tagg if the office is closing and wi
will be dealing with the contractual side of this.

Tae office is to be relocated (where to we dont yet :

know!)Rebecca U Robinson is taking over the contractual
bit from me now - she's based at Leeds. You can contact
lher via € mail or oné_

hte

POL00118219

POL00118219

16/2/2001

jastlesp

08/02/2001

E-m. cccived from ICLPaula,Roger Harrison the SMPRi
Ipartner phoned me today to ask me if I could ask ICL to send
experts to look at his system as he is still convinced that there is
a problem with our system.He told me that the office was
closed on 30/11/00, and the contract has been terminated. He
has a meeting with his solicitor on Tuesday and now feels in a
position to start court proceedings.Roger has obtained names of
Fujitsu's management and intends to log a complaint with
them.He says he has evidence given to him by our help desk,
presumably in telephone conversations.I have told my manager
[Dave Law and we decided to document the event and asked you
if you want to log it as a cross domain problem.] know that
once a SMPR tells PON/POCL of their intention to take legal
action that you hand over to your legal department. I need PON
to make it very clear to Roger that I can't and won't engage in
conversations about this.RegardsClaudia

iz-nail forwarded to RNM and Contractual team for a

response.Rebecca Robinson is dealing with this and will
advise of the next course of action.

Mrs J Wolstenholme

Subpostmaster

Cleveleys MSPO

2 Runnymede Avenue

CLEVELEYS

Blackpool

FYS IDF 3" November 2000

Dear Julie

Further to my visit of today, I will send written authorisation to hold the shortage of £3261.94 from the
balance of Wednesday 1“ November 2000, week 32, in table 2a of your cash account.

‘

This now puts the total amount being held in your account at £13,620.57. 1 appreciate £500 of this a
remittance shortage awaiting clearance from Chesterfield and a further £2497.94 , which is part of the
total of Cash Shortage B £5679.36, is still under investigation as a disputed system failure.

However of the remaining losses of £10,622.63, the sum of £7,360.69 has now exceeded the normal 8
week period in which losses are allowed to be held. This situation can no longer be allowed to continue
and I must ask that you regularise your account and clear the sum of £7360.69 from Table 2a during
week 33, week ending Wednesday 8" November 2000. 1 have enclosed a detailed breakdown of the
losses which was drawn from the office balances.

If making good these losses would cause you severe financial hardship, and on proof of such hardship,
arrangements may be made to allow repayment by deductions from your remuneration over a maximum.
period of 12 months. You should be aware, however, that all losses including that from week 32 of
£3261.94, would become payable under this system and authority to hold any further losses cannot be
given during the period of repayment.

As the office cash and stock was verified as correct by myself and Carol Hargreaves, Retail Network
Manager, on Thursday 2™ November 2000 please be aware that any future discrepancies in your office
accounts must be rectified immediatel ror notices must be brought to account in the week they
are received and the resulting surplus made good during the same balance period

I must strongly advise you to immediately implement the checking procedures we discussed during my
recent visits i.e. the manual recording of data you feel has been miscalculated by vour Horizon systen)
and the recording of all error notices received (using the proforma I left with you recently). Can L also
take this opportunity to advise you that accurate accounting within the office is your responsibility and
whilst I can advise you on best practice thedggroductign of such practices lies with you. = //

POL00118219
POL00118219

POL00118219
POL00118219

nist

If L have not had a written request from you regarding repayment by deductions by Friday 10”
November, 2000, or written details of how you intend to repay these losses, I shall assume the amount
of £7360.69 has been dropped from you account and that the only shortages then being held will be the
remittance shortage of £500, the disputed loss of £2497.94 and the loss from week 32 of £3261.94
which will be due for repayment within 8 weeks .

I do appreciate that this is a difficult situation to resoive but feel that 1 can no longer allow the losses to
be held indefinitely and that ultimately the resolution of this problem will benefit us all

Yours sincerely,

Elaine Tagg ~
Retail Network Manager

alo
tte

POL00118219
POL00118219

CLEVELEYS MSPO - At week 15 office transferred to individual stock units week 15 balance should 0.00 result. An assumption is made that at this point all stock and
cash was accurately recorded. Office was last audited 1“ June 2000 when result was £16.32 surplus.

Week Number Result of Balance Comments

16 £15.03 surplus , No error notices processed

17 £1613.38 shortage No error notices processed

18 £1168.93 surplus No error notices processed

19 £2156.56 soca £40 claim e/notice bta i
20 £2065.80 shortage £9 charge e/notice bta and previous shortage not made good I
21 £1906.61 shortage No error notices processed and previous shortage not made good

posted to suspense as cash shortage C, later reduced as below

22 £1625.34 surplus £2419,22 charge e/notice bta plus £50.00 charge e/notice bta
used to reduce previous Weeks shortage to £281.27 - cash shortage C

23 £1478.78 shortage £85.25 charge e/notice bta
Shortage added to Cash Shortage C which now equals £1760.05

4 £2.06 surplus
£4030 Giro evnotice posted to suspense and shown as part of Cash Shortage B (2497.94 +4 030.00) £6527,940
reduced by claim error notices by £348.35 in week 33 to £5679,36

28 £2411.30 surplus assumed withdrawn from account
26 £309.27 surplus £50 claim e /notice bta and assumed surplus withdrawn
27 £259.44 shortage No e/notices processed

219,50 shottage No e/notices processed and assumed previous weeks shortage not made good

I k
\ ;
Ste

POL00118219

POL00118219
~ ~
£83.67 shortage No error notices processed and assumed previous weeks shortage not made good
£332.08 shortage £242.85 charge e/notice bta like previous weeks shortage and assumed not made good
£193.59 surplus No error notices processed - subpostmaster said surplus was not withdrawn - we know foreign
was overstated by almost £2k so would have expected account to be this amount over
£3261.94 shortage No error notices processed

posted to suspense and added to £500 rem shortage part of Cash Shortage A £3761.94

I i
AUTHORISED CASH SHORTAGES i

rem shortage trom week 21 £500
shortage from week 32 £3261.94
Cash Shortage A total £3761.94

Horizon system - possible malfunction from weeks I - 7 £2497.94
Giro Error Notice bta week 24 £4030.00
Less error notice of £799.65 from Week 18/19
Less error notice of £48.93 from week 18.19
Cash Shortage B total £5679,36

Week 21 shortage reduced by week 22 surplus £281.27
Week 23 shortage £1478.78

Cash Shortage C total £1760.05

Error notices (for foreign currency) bta week 23 £2419.22

Cash Shortage D total £2419,22
bte

TOTAL IN SUSPENSE AT WEEK 33 £13,620.57 (disputed amount=£2497.94
rem shortage awaiting clearance £500
week 32 loss £3261.94)

TOTAL DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTED TO ERROR NOTICES /MISBALANCES = £10,622.63

Losses to be made good inimediately £7360.69 If payment by deduction authorised total amount of £10,622.63 would need to be accounted for
1
Assumptions have been made that may or may not be correct but for accounting purposes have needed to be made.

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

a oe MOLE NELS MA OPA SEQ..

pees ee wee ne ER. Romie Se. WG,

pean Glan.)

— .__Re_lebbe- abel. A:\\-O0.. esieney pe oye

2. Dence-65 Ba nie noe. SUL inna 2 espte  Lhek

oc. Vorizon.. Sines yee pak 9. urpenhhs, nck keen
eral ne cinte ype Dewe ibtan, saad He Conca ._undecsks

wa Siete a Vege erpanisalac~ as. Pash-O ice Cosbers... bed ,
= Sus. Asack<__dor_ so. “homey —-ovech Lacks ote See

' neve We is. berkeley bevprel O80 oo ee
we We eve ers eee An beth he De Cedeoku -
"am _bee. rope _. Probe Wis nah 2. mobbes ist lee reselveck ._

= vo gr Gnewaly Se es ee

Mrs J Wolstenholme

Subpostmaster

Cleveleys MSPO

2 Runnymede Avenue

CLEVELEYS

Blackpool

FYS IDF 20" November 2000

Dear Julie

Thank you for your undated letter which I received on Saturday 10" November 2000.

1 am disappointed that you have not made good the losses nor provided details of how you intend to
repay the losses currently held in your account, as asked for in my letter of 3 November 2000.

1 appreciate that you main concem is that the Horizon system in your office may be malfunctioning but
can assure you that ICL Pathway are currently undertaking, on behalf of Post Office Network, extensive
checks on your system. Early indications trom the engineers are that the system is operating correctly
and no malfunctions, other than those currently being experienced by other offices due to the upgrade
and which do not affect the office balance, have so far been found .

A full “health check” was given to your system in week 4, 13" April, 2000 and you were advised at that *

time, verbally by me, that your system had no malfunctions. Indeed between then and week number 15,
3" July, 2000 your balancing was as expected for an office of this size and as I received no
communication from you I can only assume that you had accepted the findings.

However we cannot ignore the conclusion that accounting errors are responsible for the Josses and
following my visit of Wednesday 15" November, 2000 when I was accompanied by Carol Hargreaves to
undertaken operational checks, it Would appear there are no robust checking procedures in place at your
office. To date 38 error notices have been issued to your office which substantiates that checking
procedures in your office are minimal. Had even a cursory check been made of the office balance then
the majority of these errors would have been discovered prior to the cash account having been
produced. I was concerned to find that, during my visit of 15"" November, no attempts were made to
verify the losses or gains in individual stocks nor was any check of documents on hand undertaken.

Pose Office Nervorks

< Office Counters ait

ny Sever

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

If you cannot provide any proof that the Horizon system is responsible for your losses then the losses
currently held in your account will need to be made good in line with my letter of 3 November, 2000.

I do urge you , once again, to seek the support of the National Federation of Subpostmasters in the
hope that they may be able to assist you in putting forward your case.

You are reminded that under Section 9.12 of your contract for service with Post Office Network a
subpostmaster is responsible for all losses incurred at his office. You are also remind that under Section
15 of the same contract retention of your appointment as Subpostmaster depends on the office being
well managed and the work performed properly to the satisfaction of Post Office Network.

Task, once again, that you submit to me, in writing, by Monday 27" November 2000, how you intend
to repay the losses held in your account. Failure to make good the losses or provide details on how you
intend to do so will bring into doubt your suitability to remain as the subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO.

Please be assured that you will be given every opportunity to put your case forward but this situation
must be resolved as soon as possible to ensure that further losses are minimised.

Yours sincerely

Retail Network Manager

CLEVELEYS MSPO

I visited Cleveleys MSPO with Elaine Tagg Retail Network Manager on
2 November 2000 and again on 15 November 2000.

The first visit on 2 November 2000 was to assist Elaine to discover what faults had
occurred, with the Horizon system at the office during their balance the evening
before. We found that two stock units had not been balanced due to incorrect stock
figures appearing on the adjust stock screen. I had experienced this problem at one of
my offices and it was solved by running a balance snapshot which showed the correct
figures, and then going back to the adjust stock screen to confirm they were now
correct. I had been told by the Helpline that the problem was caused by running
reports for the stock unit on different terminals in the office. We advised the
Subpostmaster to use one terminal to run off all reports.

We checked the cash and stock held in all stock units was correct before we ran off
the office snapshot to check all the daily work had been recorded correctly. The office
balance showed a discrepancy in excess of £2K and the Subpostmaster could give no
reason for this loss.

The Subpostmaster was adamant that Horizon is the cause of the losses both on the
day and previous weeks. We found no evidence to support this allegation. Indeed
during the course of the day we observed the checking procedures at the office and
found that no real checks are completed. We advised the Subpostmaster that she must
check all transactions against the relevant reports and record them on ‘daily sheets ‘,
which Elaine supplied. The Subpostmaster was very reluctant to add extra work to her
workload and Elaine explained that if she did suspect that the Horizon system was the
cause of the office losses than she would have to prove this as a fact and this checking
system would assist her to do this. Elaine told her that she would arrange for
diagnostic checks to be made on the Horizon system. There were several error notices
at the office which did prove that necessary checks are not carried out on the work
conducted at the office.

On the second visit which was made to check on operational procedures and if these
had been implemented since our first visit. It was immediately obvious that our advice
had been ignored and no checking procedures had been put in place. During the
evening we checked the Bureau de Change balance and found this had been
incorrectly completed with three currencies found to have been wrongly accounted
for. The number of travellers cheques on hand were some £4K more than declared on
the reports.

The Subpostmaster was aware that one of the currencies was showing a negative
figure on the declaration but had ignored this, not sought advise on how to correct this
and carried on to balance. She said she didn’t know about balancing travellers cheques
and as these were non value stock until sold this hadn’t effected the balance.

The Bureau had been balanced at lunchtime, with transactions conducted after the
balance being carried over to the next day. This procedure could amount to false
accounting as all the transactions were not being correctly recorded in the accounting

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

week they were transacted. Not being an expert on how the bureau should be balanced

we did not mention this at the time to give Elaine the opportunity to check the correct
procedure.

The stock units were balanced by the individual clerks and two of the clerks showed.
large shortages. These stock units were checked, one by myself, and no discrepancies
were found. The shared stock units AA & RJ were balanced by the Subpostmaster and
her husband and it was observed that when the AA stock was taken to trial report
stage the loss was noted and this amount was transferred from RJ stock unit to AA
without any attempted to discover why the misbalance had occurred. When RJ was
balanced it showed a surplus of £70. This misbalance was just accepted without any
checks being carried out. As so few transactions are conducted through this stock unit
it was surprising that the misbalance was so readily accepted without trying to find
what had occurred to make this stock unit misbalance.

The cash and stock in all the stock units are not recorded on any official forms but bits
of paper are used and then these are thrown away. There is therefore no way to check
back to see if correct figures have been input into the Horizon system.

At one point the Subpostmaster’s husband asked her where the cash declaration was
for RJ stock unit, which had been completed earlier, she said that she had thrown it
away. This was a surprise as she seems to keep all declarations from the Horizon
system. With the benefit of hindsight we should have checked the cash and stock in
both RJ & AA stock units as there could have been discrepancies that we were not
aware of. Elaine is going to try to arrange a special audit as soon as possible. We also
discovered a family tax credit payment for over £200 which had been put through RJ
stock which was signed by the Subpostmaster - we both expressed surprise that given
the remuneration that the Subpostmaster receives for the office that she would be
eligible for this sort of benefit.

Once all stock units had been rolled over into the next cash account week, the cash
account was produced without any checks being made that the entries were correct by
the Subpostmaster. Elaine explained to the Subpostmaster’s husband, that the cash

account entries should be checked for accuracy before the final report was produced
but this advise was ignored.

Elaine explained to the Subpostmaster’s husband that if he and his wife expected the
Business to take their belief that the Horizon system is causing their losses seriously
then they would have to prove where the errors are being made, and the only way to
do this is to record information to allow adequate checks to be made.

Three more error notices were at the office which points to the problems with losses at
this office not being due to Horizon but to operational issues.

CONCLUSION

No evidence was found to support the Subpostmaster’s belief that the Horizon system
has been the cause of the losses at the office. There have been some technical
problems with the system but not ones, in my opinion, which could be the cause of the

au
POL00118219
POL00118219

losses. There is substantial evidence that operational issues are the probable cause of
the losses. Unless the Subpostmaster can provide proof that the Horizon system is
somehow at fault , which I don’t believe she will be able to do, then I would have to
maintain my opinion that the losses at her office are due to her own incompetence.

Carol Hargreaves
Retail Network Manager

ass
POL00118219
POL00118219

PV Lae

ClLeVGLGYS meso
RQ Bxwnmene AVE,
TUHE2NSTON I
CrevecetS .
Fus me

Door Gtaine_,

Re. ger Nekker = clakend QBO-wWSBQ Wel
wove weer WW Conkesk GQ Wa Sak Poskmroabe =
Tederabio~ arch we ere WwW roa erscess oy
cm maaan oar case, as wea hove no LAbenbisan
mm, Tepeynea Cese losses. Surely yoo lero as Ket
as os Bet a ~ oyyc]e Connck lose CWis amount
% ‘ wroneny, in, NO months. W?WWis is us Wee \oohen
kh is door bo Be Uerize n Syste oe ve OBsee -
ahich, hos bee sesarchedt on ON error dey OMS
feo nermelly ony oerties bo Sc okicans ae
de Posk- dice. cance opersbe. at ott) bo OK
skere os bee ~ no Salbs Jacko Sete lonalson om
renolulbion to eroblemS We hove heck anck are

ond wetevea We Repke i SIL \renen
woos 4 er AS

mas. D- WorsSTE >:

Soe - SESH ASTCS_.
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme Post Office Counters Ltd
Subpostmaster

Cleveleys MSPO-

2 Runnymede Avenue

CLEVELEYS

Blackpool

FYS IDF 30 November 2000

Dear Julie

T have not yet received a reply to my letter of 20" November, 2000 despite my request for details on
how you intend to repay the losses currently being held in your account.

Because of your failure to reply, and you subsequent suspension on an other matter, you are invited to
attend for interview with me on Friday 8" December 2000 at the Retail Network Managers Office,
Birley Street, Preston at 10.30 am.

You may be accompanied at the interview by a friend or a member of the National Federation of
Subpostmasters.

If you are unable to attend on this date af this time please let me know via the Helpline as soon as
possible.

Post Office Counters Led
North Wales and North West
Birley Street

Prescon

(om Otce Cars Lat Regma and
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme

Subpostmaster

Cleveleys MSPO

2 Runnymede Avenue

CLEVELEYS

Blackpool

FYS 1DF 30" November 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

This letter is to confirm that I have suspended you from your contract for services as Subpostmaster at
Cleveteys MSPO with effect from today, 30 November, 2000 and arrangements have been made for
your remuneration to be ceased from this date.

I will contact you again about this matter as soon as possible.

Yours sincerely,

Post Office Network
Post Office Counters Led
Birley Screet

Preston

PRI AZ,

Gostomer helpine’
wee ponoffce-counters.co.uk

448 S855=
POL00118219
POLO00118219

5" December 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

I wrote to you on Thursday 30" November 2000 confirming the suspension of your contract for
services as subpostmaster of Cleveleys MSPO.

Ihave now received papers relating to this case and after reviewing them I am now considering the
termination of your contract for services on the following grounds :-

Your failure to meet your obligation to manage the office properly which constitutes a breach of
Section 1(M) para 5 of your contract. This states that retention of the appointment as a subpostmaster
depends upon the office being well managed and the work performed properly to the satisfaction of
Post Office Counters. The excessive number of error notices, 38 to date between weeks 1 and 32, is
unacceptable and as detailed in my letter of 20" November 2000 , indicates a lack of thecking
procedures in your office. During the final audit of your office a further 4 error notices, issued to your
office by Chesterfield were found on hand. These should have been brought to account during week
36. One of these error notices for £533.00 had been issued to you on 15" November and the other 3 on
22™ November Section 11(M) para 3 of your contract states that “the subpostmaster will be responsible
for ensuring that transactions are carried out accurately” and that “all documentation is properly
completed and despatched at the due time.

Your failure to account for official cash and stock properly .i.e. your refusal to operate the Horizon
system installed in your office is a clear breach of Section 12 para 4 of your contract. This states that
the subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him by Post Office
Counters are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters. The operation of the Horizon system
in post offices is fundamental to both the success of our business and the reconciliation processes

we have with our clients and your refusal to operate it is a breach of your contract. . A check of the
Littlewoods scratchcards also revealed £60 worth accounted for as stock on hand which should have
been withdrawn previously.

‘You are now given an opportunity to answer the charges and put forward any reasons why your
contract for services should not be terminated. You can do this by submitting written representations
or requesting an interview.

Our prearranged interview for Friday 8" December 2000 will now be deemed cancelled and you
should communicate with me within ten working days (Monday to Friday) from the date following the
date of this notification. Shouls you choose an interview, you may be accompnaied at the interview by
a friend who must be a Post Office employee, a Subpostmaster or registered Sub Office Assistant, and
may also be a local representative of the National Federation of Subpostmasters.

Your sincerely

ag9
POL00118219
POL00118219

Elaine Tagg
Retail Network Manager

I 240
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme
Subpostmaster
Cleveleys MSPO

2 Runnymede Avenue
Thornton Cleveleys
Lancashire

FY5 1DF 15th December 2000

Fost Office Counters Lu!

as Ms Wolclerba@no

Thank you for contacting my office and forwarding the papers relating to
your precautionary suspension from your contract for services at Cleveleys
Post Office on Thursday 30 November 2000.

It would not be appropriate for me to comment on the situation at your office
until a decision on your future as a Subpostmaster has been made.

As you may know, there exists a well established process for dealing with
contractual issues such as this and I expect the process to be adhered to in this
case. This includes a clearly defined appeals procedure, should that prove
necessary, whereby a senior manager from Post Office Network, would
undertake a complete review of the case and would have the final authority to
confirm or overturn the earlier decision. In such circumstances, I would
forward all relevant papers you have sent to me to that individual to fully
inform the final decision.

I realise that you may find my reply disappointing but I feel confident that the
procedure I have described will ensure that your case is heard in a fair and
appropriate manner.

Dave Miller
Managing Director, Post Office Network

al
POL00118219
POL00118219

20.{L 9°

CLEVELEYS.

\ here yoo ore area cy Wea sukuabie nr Gut

we ore WR ok Ws fy» Ond wre Sbrowgyy believe
nok the actions bLhet Levee beer bolee ancl ore Stith
ing boleen by or Rirdmm- Clame Tacgy be be Slesded
mR decimansn mode doe bo We aac bok she Seenrs— ko
weve meade ‘Uk A erssrcl metbe- cathe Leer a looses
w thker-

Wwe beleve She is esa bs last os Inte
Becisans ard trang be resale moltes behind ov back:
ach we Uiale is very Unprojessionsh op her. She olso
awgrmed oe sy our Giro Custome& ew He 14-12-00 Chat
she  covld oy hed he apiece re-opered We dow ogre
she lesed “Ur down VQ bis is so Uh Gesik “Ur dove? Cy
Bis sane dow Ms Teagg cone wih a lee Inaprening,
os Keb mo Ask Rabel hed bear appointed berjorary Sot -
Se ko evetess MSPS ot DRNDBODO, and (Let ve
Shoutcl a Ene enbachk&S Arar ve ad Signed an Son as
€ Udhe. Quen Chistmoas tS ohh Bias pened we hove
beer Vexe UL only 5S bloricing clays notice bo sort
oe yPnoy out . Su rth We carta a) bea ‘nope’ Sortie -
Do wee ink Bas eyives es acleguake bine? We wrgortoretlien
dent. The followin) doy IN12OO Ge recieved anrcthe-
\ekke-  grom ms Toog Grobina, Secho~ 1S poraava LL oy
Wwe ese Conbeacdk Sabian, Bre SUA pashmasbe- mo
requre Go Mote Ls PremseS avaatle opr Be corbin J

Provistans % Posk- oye services. Please lek Ui be bron
Drek We hove never dered ms Taga Or anyone else
reosoreable Access Eo cor tooth cg aad Bek We Gand
nok eorordize re fe-openi no > Aewelays POSL-Ogtice.
we jee Wak We Soage= Ms “Vaqgn 1s baleen ay

aaa uo :
beeritole

Bis

Sensors . the Socne- mess
Seared ve-
Enclesecdd is. ath Corres eonclence.
wor case
Ne Soci Scere
7

293

POL00118219
POL00118219

mon be

rerak “sy ko
POL00118219
POL00118219

Dear Clare,

Re. \eker clated S-13.c0. \ gest \ heve been
aye WAL no cyte BE to Tte Lo pe owen Ge
ems pe bkeve Sot ose as be her con Occompeny me
we Ge tenes

Arsty we ae very sheckec! bo Qerct hak
Par Goer Sospenso~ is \cesect or he gordts eA o>
wee eke HI Oo er § Ve Lave Led op ongice
der YR wetks now and Ge Veve Aras had oped

) : :
reports from or opgce Ve. avrdtos , ashen Seqeres
Nékes-s obec, Please cord wer Shbeoke Wo chek may eco- oe
s sme nncges - FASE yoo Wetede eucessve ee notices
ecawwesk as A reascn, why Gere Re oy betel gor Be
Yr ee Rye prenous lekle- detect AStloo. Lak gL
oece es recat boo mony: These ere weltcexy have
bee coy de-DE, were so See eC
Ww r ork Vencei, So Chey age heve Ce neve boon,
~ met atook Win eave. We Aokk really Leases wach 4
BB ere- nckiceS is eorceaswe aqve~ Be see ara Ans...
wsress we do fF R :
% ~~ eye _eace ) lek aver the io &
oy Stress } Gacna Ge love kee, Uncher der the \as
, : as
\O menths ach also Kat we Leteve. a lek eve th

ere ches are door be a heicc, Syphean

oo?
Last Ve cto nok

Wwe Ke lk

hove bo A's ogee sar

Banke Ge leve Arrest ~

Account ney yer we cash and Skhocle Propet - Yes. we dy

ABS! bo 1 ‘
— se He Leicor Syste, bot se wee ait

PMY Prepeed bo ap bade be ua wresset  sysken ls
mort es accanted for as cosh aca Ssece Proce 2
poate

wedn~ taht:
e sacha saa DAMES We "Sai ey a Vonze~
POL00118219
POL00118219

womplekety ve ‘Wie Stroman Prot: €.S  Shecle was foene-ct
viemprre~ , and heb we bed mole  Segbtsere arcihe-s
wd AS HR reste we Cort wiskalorce. be were

Livsed web bo betace. Ye levee Hens ov ved Wok
wre is Smalling, Wwreney wu we SeShenn . Ue leeleve
wk Leros ae wusleclonces op our Syphon this Ais in

vo ere (A Such astracenteok alebe. Hee ic enupee in

ese? righ mids eepect os bo conten Lsrney Suc a Syphon
Le openeth oe ates on husclouy Bo-w.c vevertice
pacte FO Monch anc we were Complete Shecked oil
4 ayes ley Be ackorS po beck be cicse OS aon.
a hepee~-el bo He Gostornre Felobtor.s Pot- OMe
dabes Ud pride bhanmsever or. This hes \exe mrony
rele aay od vesek.
We Shrew aly ehkeve Ge Love leo vex
¢ Kee bey treated ocve~- Gin cLrhele wolbe-. A leusin@ss Can
we oA SUE IVe ew askekh to csote with drrrey
p erecte crcl Me ae deer Opsee Bek we love
ee snk sock & Sthsctkho~ aicl net heloed are

es, S.WeLSTEasM.3ALMKe.

a4S
wy

POL00118219
POL00118219

Post Office Counters Ltd

18" December 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to our telephone conversation today about access to the premises which house Cleveleys
MSPO, I can confirm that Mr Asif Patel has been authorised as temporary subpostmaster at the office
from 28" December 2000.

Post Office Network is unwilling to commit funds and stock into premises to which it has no legal
access and as such the office will remain close until a secure legal agreement has been reached between
Mr Patel and yourself. I have asked Mr Patel to contact you as soon as possible to arrange for the
necessary paperwork to be completed .

Tt is in all our interests to get Cleveleys MSPO open as soon as possible and J hope you will give Mr
Patel every assistance in his efforts to get the contracts drawn up and signed as soon as possible.

If you require any further details about the appointment of Mr Patel please do not hesitate to contact
me.

Elaine Tagg
Retail Network Manager

Pose Office Counters Led
North Wales and North West

Mrs J Wolstenholme

18" December 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to your suspension letter dated 5% December 2000 in which I informed you of the reasons why
you had been suspended.

Post Office Network needs access to the post office premises whilst we are working towards a
satisfactory solytion. This will allow us to continue the provision of post office services to the local
community from your premises.

Section 15, paragraph 4 of the Modified Subpostmaster s Contract states, when discussing suspension

from office, the business “may require the subpostmaster to make his premises available for the
continued provision of post office services”.

May I take this opportunity to remind you that Post Office Network is endeavouring to retain post
office services from your premises at this unfortunate time, by invoking this clause of your Contract.
Failure to collaborate may cause Post Office network to relocate the provision of post office services to
a location other than your own.

A telephone response to this letter,from you js required by noon on Wednesday 20 December 2000.

Yours sincerely

Retail Network Manager

Post Office Network
Post Office Counters Led
Birley Street

Preston

PRIIAZ,

Cntormer helping

aq}

Noth tagared ce Corte Mone

POL00118219
POLO00118219

(et ct Cosme nagar mtd
‘Thornton

leveleys

BLACKPOOL

L 21 December 2000
Dear Julie

Thank you for your letter of 20! December 2000. Unfortunately you have
failed to answer the charges put to you in my letter of 5 December 2000.

In order that you have every opportunity to put forward reasons which may
affect my decision on your future as subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO can
you please give detailed answers to the following questions as well as the
specific charges put to you in my letter of 5" December 2000.

1. Do you intend to repay the outstanding losses currently held in the final
account of the office ? i.e. the sum of £14, 109.91 . Section 9 (M) para 12 if the
modified Subpostmasters Contract refers. If you do intend to repay these

losses please provide details of how you intend to do so as per my letter of 34
November 2000. (copy enclosed)

2. Do you intend, if reinstated to the office, to use the Horizon system, in its
present state, to produce the office accounts? You should be appraised that
during your suspension the system has been extensively and intensively used
by several Retail Network Managers and the Audit Team. No problems were
encountered and the system operated smoothly without any difficulties.

Ona further note, my letter of 5!" December 2000 incorrectly directed you to
Section 12 para 4 a of the Modified Subpostmaster Contract re the charge
"failure to account for official cash and stock properly". The correct
contractual reference is Section 9 (M) para 4. My apologies for any confusion
this may have caused you in putting forward your case.

Please let me have your detailed written response to both this and my letter

of 5t December 2000 by Thursday 4** January 2000 i.e. within 5 working days
from the date of this letter.

Ihave enclosed a stamped addressed envelope for your reply.

Yours sincerely

; i Post Ofhies Nework

BARRE Tagg
Retail Network Manager

POL00118219
POL00118219
Mrs J Wolstenholme

23 December 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Thank you for your letter of 20 December 2000 concerning Cleveleys Post
Office.

Can I immediately say that I welcome your confirmation that you have no
intention of jeopardising the re-opening of Cleveleys Post Office, and like you I
also wish the matter to be resolved as quickly as possible.

I do know that Elaine Tagg has been trying to get the service returned at the
office for some weeks and I am aware that the proposed interim Subpostmaster
first tried to negotiate a suitable arrangement for operating from your premises
on 8 December 2000.

Nothing could be progressed earlier as you were not contactable the previous
week. Clearly, as soon as you are willing and able to reach a formal agreement
with the interim Subpostmaster, we will do all that we can to expedite the re-
opening of the office.

I do hope that with your goodwill in this matter, we can quickly restore service
to our customers in Cleveleys. _

At the same time, I expect your own situation to be addressed urgently and
brought to an appropriate conclusion.

Yours sincerely

Tony Biolchi
Head of Retail Network

Telephone: {”

299

POL00118219

POL00118219
Mrs J Wolstenholme

3" January 200i

Dear Julie

Further to our telephone conversation of ‘'uesday 2 January 2001 I am writing to ask that you keep
me informed as to what progress is being made towards getting a contract drawn up between yourselves
and Mr Asif Paiel re his being given your authority to use the premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue to
conduct Post Office Services. Mr Patel has been willing to take on this temporary appointment since
Monday 4" December, 2000, and I would ask once again that you give him every assistance in resuming
Post Office Services from your premises.

You indicated that you had applied for legal aid to assist with the financial element of getting this
contract in place and I would appreciate an estimate, which you may be able to get from your legal
representative in this matter, as to how long this process will take. It is of course in all our interests to
get service to our customers resumed as soon as possible and even a provisional date as to when the
contract may be in place would assist in planning the refunding of the office.

A telephone call cither to myself or via the Helpline, within 24 hours of the situation changing, would
be both speedy and much appreciated . However, if you would prefer to keep me updated in writing
please use the enclosed stamped addressed envelope.

Yours sincerely

Retail Network Manager » “~~~

Pose Olle Networ
Past Office Councers Ub

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

PAND BGUVECer ,

Golo

leo Glorne ,
Re \etter Gated Arihb-as. On user ioe

oink o% gowe ke answer bo charges

‘ y
iA er Yabba
Aatedi S:19-00. We eer ote have

Olreach, replies be Lrese
« haraes bkhw neo answess ae~ bot:
G

yct mere Guaskions

Ra. quesben \ % Your present lekbe— gee

vote Sectio~ A GY) pare 12 bre PASCO Conbrack , aS &
nowt. Skhokedk in PrexresS \exte-s EheSe losses We beleve, ore
few bo Conpube- gertore eeickh 1s bhe  tcans 4 all ou

or “stems, bhecresore Lhe  seebian ges geste does nek reper
. : +

p> these eA fem Sk ante \ arch. say oR Sboted Le previo
ete te cant tot tt onset be held respeniiie fo
7 ese losses.

Re. epoestton~ 2. yes Boy Wek Ue gushes has

© ree eortenswoly and \ntensivein, used Guticue ina:

cay prostems wee in eect iw os and hes been at *
dnoper above hk Supters Since we Closed ddowen. “Thet ules o
Py dt 1 erence aS BEA wae wee Chae, » ‘b Lie,
as . be be reinstabeck unkib CRG ee was wode_

> P.o.c Lu act ey Hortze. bhatk cur

wer are
ws

Ss ow Osi.
rai — aX (OS

interest ko

Py openincock Ub wold be i beak

La Cf

( webe our age mene aily.

Cone S. weet sTenweurne

30!
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mr Asif Patel

9" January 2001

Dear Rogger Harrison & Julie Wolstenholme,

Re: Lease on 2 Runnymede Avenue

Further to our conversation regarding the above property 1 would like to highlight a few
issues that I feel strongly about. Firstly the usage of the front door it would not be
permissible for me to run a business without a front door key as you may be aware that
Post Office Counters Ltd would not grant me such license to run the Post Office counter
from premises that I have very restricted access.

Second of all the point you have raised in clause 6 that no visitors are allowed to enter the
premises outside Business hours, such a demand cannot be met for various reasons i.e.

audit checks, staff briefing from management and or assistance needed for stock control
and balancing.

The space allocated for my usage in the building, is the large back office, post office
counter and the space behind the counter within the building, for security reasons

admittance would not be permitted to anybody apart from my fellow colleagues and my
main concern would be to change my side of the security locks.

I feel that the use of electric and gas should be metered separately from the domestic side
of the building due to such a high demand in rent, which should be renegotiated.

I wait in anticipation for a favorable response.

Yours sincerely—-~—

Mr Asif Patel

300,
Mrs J Wolstenholme

17* January 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to my letter of 18* December 2000, which reminded you that Post Office Network is
endeavouring to retain post office service from your premises, I have been approached by Mr Asif
Patel about the possibility of using your premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys. Unfortunately
some of the conditions in the “licence to operate a Post Office” from these premises are not acceptable
to Post Office Network.

Specifically not allowing full unrestricted access to both the Post Office “allocated space” nor the
public area in which our customers would be expected to wait for service would be an unacceptable
condition upon which we would appoint an agent. In short the provision of a front door key to the
premises would need to be included in any agreement you reached with any prospective appointee to
the office. Your restriction on who can access the premises via the back door is also unacceptable to
Post Office Network. Representatives of Post Office Network need to be allowed onto the premises

out of hours for various reasons and for a landlord to restrict access in this way in unacceptable to Post
Office Network.

You should also be advised that at least one quarters notice on a tenancy would be required for us to
consider premises suitable.

Post Office Network must be fully agreeable to any contract which relates to premises from which to
conduct its business from.

I must now ask that, if you intend to make you premises available, in a full and unrestricted manner,
from which Post Office Network can offer services to the public from, you let me know in writing
within 5 days from the date of this letter.

If do not hear from you agreeing to these conditions then I shall take it that you do not wish to offer
your premises to us under these terms and you should be advised that Post Office Network will
actively seek to provided alternative premises from which to operate.

Yours sincerely

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

303

POL00118219
POL00118219

2,
Mrs J Wolstenholme

GRO £§Cleveleys

25" January 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to my letter of 18" January, 2001, which Royal Mail have confirmed was
delivered on Friday 19" January 2001, and as I have not received your written answer
that you wish your premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys, to be used to
provide Post Office services to the public, I am now advising you that Post Office
Network will be seeking alternative premises from which to operate. It is our intention
to begin advertising for such premises from Monday 29" January 2001.

Should you have already replied my letter and it has perhaps been delayed in the post
and if you do wish to offer your premises for use to Post Office Network you should
contact me as soon as possible by telephone or. and send a written
confirmation of the telephone conversation by return in the prepaid envelope enclosed
with this letter.

I sincerely hope that you do decided to offer your premises to Post Office Network as
it is in the best interests of all concerned to maintain Post Office services from your
premises.

Yours sincerely

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

304

POL00118219
POL00118219
we?

Mrs J Wolstenholme

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

I am writing following your written submissions as to why you consider your
contract as Subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO should not be terminated as a
result of your failure to meet your obligation to manage the office properly
and your failure to account for official cash and stock properly.

T have reviewed the papers relating to the case very carefully and have taken
into account your comments from your written submissions.

There have been a number of error notices and subsequent losses made at the
office and you have failed to contact me regarding misbalances at your office.
I refer you to the general letter, which was sent to all offices in April 2000,
which stated that you should notify me of any losses over £200.

I supplied you with aids to help produce a satisfactory balance on 16 March
2000 and suggested you introduce accounting records on the office action
plan of 12 October 2000. I also reminded you to use checking procedures on 3
November 2000. You decided not to carry out any of these suggested actions.

You failed to make good the loss from week ending 2 August 2000 and did
not inform me until 17 August 2000. You refused to provide details of how

the losses at the office were to be made good, despite requests on 3 November _

2000 and 20 November 2000.

POL00118219
POL00118219

\\
/

Post Office Network
Post Office Counters Ltd
Birley Street
Preston

PRI TAZ
Customer helping j
won: postffce-counters.co.uk

30S
POL00118219
POL00118219

y
Due to the number of losses and losses not being made-good the office was
showing an overall loss of £14109.91 at the date of your suspension.

Following your suspension, error notices were found in the office, which had
not been brought to account.

Stock on hand at the office, namely scratchcards, were found to be included in

the office balance but were in fact obsolete. Instructions for withdrawal had
been issued to all offices.

Ihave taken into account your concerns about the Horizon system but in the
absence of any supporting documentation from yourself to substantiate your
claim and lack of evidence from the call logs I cannot accept your reasqning.

. I have therefore decided, in accordance with ‘Section 1 paragraph 9 of your
at contract for services, to give you 3 months notice of the termination of that
contract. Your last day of service will be 28 February 2001. I will forward
you, in due course, a letter regarding the remuneration due to you in lieu of
that notice.

Yours sincerely

Retail Network Manager

Nad

POL00118219
POL00118219

AAS > DEUivEeze> -
PQaA-or- o*

dear Claire ,

Re. spor \ebker clateclh PS a10'. We howe
ready sucruttecl berms arch corcitcrs bo

tel bo corey ook Post - ogc Ser Meeh oro

vemiser- We hove veer eclvisech Chet aver bheatk

eis owe oleliaoy Ue eth be AR ar etl heen

adkere to We preSent cartract. \s Gis 4s

nacce cea bie we Weta need bo fe- assets be-wAs

<> Condnns der le eccucetion Bed the whole a)
he grorcl floor, Wreck — rerrch result
2 assy me. Pobe t Aork

IN OR NR create “~
Vnrectacteck and Grunrkechk

ecess on ems onch Conchithors Aran ye ot lease
za.

Le. Sk
~ asso mete YOU  aurcore Eek
>» awe

equement be ney Sitoahe dt ere ise3
S ; mses
‘rte has had ond is, denna > re develoenan Sra
2 \OSiness Property ee oe chewy-a yee ay

Tl. eo Onwoe ds a~ re tk were Ww
AS

dave

o~ wor

SeesSeA anc wei Wut
‘

P\ease

. Ret yoke lee
wr ck. -

- _ me hea Wer A ave =~ cCaorse,.
Ay BAS Nekte Sa 4 dagr:

we a S\nceol

L 30+
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs.J_ Wolstenholme
Ri

8" February 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to your letter of 29" January 2001 when you advised us that “it is in your best interests to
adhere to the present contract” and you would “need to re-assess the terms and conditions for the

occupation of the whole of the ground floor” of your premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue if the present
contract was no acceptable to a temporary agent.

I note the position in relation to yourself and Mr Patel but the question of whether you grant Mr Patel a
licence or a full Jease is a matter for both parties and their legal advisers and Post Office Counters
Limited cannot comment upon this. I can advise you that Mr Patel has indicated to Elaine Tagg, Retail

Network Manager, that he is no longer interested in being appointed as a temporary subpostmaster at
Cleveleys.

I note the claim you have made for rent for Post Office Counters Limited’s equipment remaining on
your premises after 30" November 2000. There is nothing in your contract for services which allows
such a charge to be made, and I would point out that is in both your interests and those of Post Office
Counters Limited that the equipment remain upon the premises while negotiations are continuing for an
interim Subpostmaster to take over the post office.

You have informed me in your letter that you have entered into negotiations with Mr Patel for him to
act as an interim Subpostmaster and, in those circumstances, it cannot be said that Post Office Counters
Limited is denying you the redevelopment of your business property as it is allowing you to enter into
negotiations with Mr Patel on the basis of the present premises being an ongoing concern as a sub post
office as it is fully equipped. In these circumstances it is not possible for you to unilaterally impose a
rental charge for the equipment remaining on your premises.

If it is decided the post office cannot be run from your premises, Post Office Counters Limited will _
undertake to remove the equipment as soon as possible from your premises and to make good any repair -
necessary as a result of the removal. I would however make it clear that Post Office Counters Limited

does not agree to pay a rent for equipment which has remained on the premises from 30" November

2000.

‘Yours faithfully

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme

26" January 2001

VY Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to my letter of 19" January 2001, in which I advised that I would contact you
re remuneration due to you in lieu of notice.

Final figures are still being assessed and any remuneration due to you will be
forwarded as soon as it has been calculated.

If you require any further details about this issue please contact Human Resource
Advisor Team for Agents at Capstan House, Chandlers Point, 35 Broadway, Salford
Quays, SALFORD M5 2YY. The telephone number i }

Yours sincerely,

Elaine M Tagg i I
.__Retail Network Manager GRO +

309
POL00118219
POL00118219

POST!
OFFICE!

8th February 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme,

Further to my letter dated 19 January 2001 I am writing to you to confirm
arrangements with your remuneration.

\
You are due to receive £19 322.85 remuneration for the period from your

suspension, 30 November 2000, until your last day of service, 28 February
2001.

However, due to the fact that there are outstanding losses at the office, the
amount currently stands at £17 825.37, which are losses you are liable to repay
to Post Office Counters Limited under your contract for services, Section 9(M)
paragraphs 12 and 13, these losses will be set off against the amount of the
remuneration due to you. The balance of the remuneration due to you will be
paid to you when all matters between yourself and Post Office Counters
Limited are resolved in view of the claim which you have made for rental for
the equipment at the Cleveleys Post Office.

Yours sincerely

ElaineMTagg
Retail Network Manager

310
POL00118219
POL00118219

na GRO

Mans DeuwG2ed -

OEVELGYS -

Wotan Qlaine ,
Re. oper Vetke dokeck Sos-ayv, Yoo

State throb Van Nebte for La evesbencting \osseS

ok Cle oyyce- LAde- ~S Corvtrack Seckio~ An peegayt
IQ s IB, please erovihe eee, bok Crese losseS
Viove bear couse ch Bresoh my Soin AeIegrgenc e ,
Corelessres&$ CF error anc nek bares w~ thot “A
compute Aclvre— A\So please  pronde copes aA ot
ero ackice®  1ssved nel Cleveless mseo Qrom
I-2.00 bo cote .

ae cS S sneerety

MAS. D. LUUSTEIHOLENG I

A
matin Nhe! = hale Alcs Gedy tol aise

3
POL00118219
POLO00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme

20" February 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to your letter of 15" February 2001 I can only reiterate that under Section 9(M) paragraphs 12
and 13 of the Modified Subpostmaster Contract you are liable for all losses caused by your own
“negligence, carelessness or error”. You were given the several opportunities to put forward your case

why you should not repay these losses and my letters of 21" June 2000, 3" November, 2000, and 20"
November 2000, refer.

Ihave spoken to Transaction processing and they tell me the information you are requesting re copies
of error notices issued is not available. If you require financial information or accounting details from
Cleveleys MSPO you should contact Late Accounts, Post Office Network Transaction Processing, No 1
future Walk, West Bars, Chesterfield S49 1PF.

On a further point, during my visit to the premises on Thursday Ist February 2001, you were verbally
advised of Post Office Networks intention not to use your premises and our further intention to recover
our computer equipment on Friday 16" February 2001. Despite our confirming this date with you at
that meeting I understand the engineers were denied access to the equipment when they attended the
premises on Friday 16".

Post office network is active seeking alternative premises from which to offer its services and I
apologies if you misunderstood our intentions during our visit on 1** February 2001.

Further arrangements are now being made to recover our equipment. I shall ask the engineers to
contact you to arrange a suitable date for recovery of the equipment and ask that you give them every
assistance by allowing them the necessary access. If further access is denied we shall have no
alternative but to instigate legal proceedings to recover our property.

Your sincerely

Elaine Tagg
Retail Network Manager

Eye Y
Part

a)

Date

04/12/2000
11/10/2000
03/11/2000
99/11/2000
04/12/2000
29/11/2000
10/08/2000
04/12/2000
f11/2000

1
Audit

Particulars

Final Cash A/c balance

MY RENEWAL FEES
AUTOMATED PRODUCTS
FERSONAL BANKING

BUREAU DE CHANGE POS REV.
REMS FM OTHER OFFICES
TRAVELLERS CHEQ. PURCHASE
SFso FRAUD

PENSIONS & ALLOWANCES

TOTAL

NETT TOTAL

313

Manager

Charges

91
25

POL00118219
POL00118219

Allawances

100.00
100.00
22.54

a

OFFICE NAME........ GGEYELEYS

POL00118219
POL00118219

TP6
FORMER SUBPOSTMASTERS STATEMENT OF ERRORS

DATE OF ERROR .22./,.1../ 2° WEEK No 2.
CASH ACCOUNT LINE No.
Cash Account Entry = £.........04.

DETAILS OF ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)
P24 EQRORS IN THE PERIOD 18/i0Joo (30) — 22/i\/oo (35)

BL... CHARGE / Qa
. LINE DESCRIPTION... PENSIONS 4, ALLOWANCES.

Supporting Document Total = £ ....!Q.80.4- al

DATE OF ERROR o.eesoe/ see
CASH ACCOUNT LINE No...

Cash Account Entry = £....
\

DETAILS OF ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)

J coseee WEEK No......

CHARGE/CLAIM

.. LINE DESCRIPTION..............-.

... Supporting Document Total = £

DATE OF ERROR .....0.6/ cseteeee/ see, WEEK No...
CASH ACCOUNT LINE No...
Cash Account Entry = £...

DETAILS OF

LINE DESCRIPTION...

ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)

Tick if manual JV required Duty Holders Signature ...
NB A manual JV is needed when an error is forced H G RO
after the CLASS data has been archived Authorised /Checked by(POA)./
Date of authorisation 14 050%
(REVISED NOV 98)

34
POL00118219

POL00118219
. . i.
03/04 '01 TUE 13:49 PA NETWORK BANKING Qo
20a PAGE 1
FER }: OFFICE:CLEVELEYS
PFD K. CODE:153/405
WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL :

18/10/00 30 £147 ,961.34

£3,065.78 GROUP 14
£151,027.12

1 ORDER VALUE £114.65
CLAIMED BUT NOT RECEIVED
£114.65 DISALLOWED

GROUP 5

GROUP TOTAL OF £9710.95
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £9510.95
£200.00 ALLOWED

GROUP 6

GROUP TOTAL OF £2708.84
C/FWO TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £2408.84
£300.00 ALLOWED

GROUP 10

GROUP TOTAL OF £18953.59
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £18747 .26
£206.33 ALLOWED

GROUP 11

GROUP TOTAL OF £6340.20
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £6263.05
£77.15 ALLOWED

GROUP 13
GROUP TOTAL OF £78135.79
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £76148.37
£1987 .42 ALLOWED
an

GROUP 14
GROUP TOTAL OF £26919 .36
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £26509.83
£409.53 ALLOWED

Bis
'
4

"205
Fe :NW 52/01

POL00118219
POL00118219

PAGE 1 OFFICE: CLEVELEYS
?FD RE’ \NWB/066/01 BCI CODE: 153/405
WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS.
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL
etutadniaiaia ee
11/10/00 29 £143,953.06 £5,477.88 GROUP 5S

£138,475.18

CONT...-

192 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£7200.5S CLAIMED. 184
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£6925 .25 RECEIVED
£265.20 CISALLOWED

GROUP 6
4S ORDERS TOTAL VALUE

CLAIMED.

£3546 .70

44

ORDERS TOTAL

£938

LUE
1.04 RECEIVED
£200.00 CISALLOWED

GROUP 10
1423 CRDERS TOTAL VALUE
£15694 .97 CLAIMED.
ORDERS TCTAL VALUE
£15220
£474.35

128

2 RECEIVED
SALLOWED

a

GROUP 11
86 SRDERS

£6115 .97

VALUE
VALUE

976

£7
ORDERS TOTA!
£71340.62 RECEIVED

4222.4

S CLAIMED.
VALUE

£2281 .2

DISALLOWED

OMPLETED BY I Ashlene Casson

Lice =

Slo

76/01 CHECKED BY :

GRO

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Fa NW 52/01 PAGE 2 OFFICE: CLEVELEYS

PFO RF jNWB/066/01 Bcl CODE: 153/405
WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL,

pl1/10/00 29 CONT.... GROUP 14

227 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£25895.38 CLAIMED. 218
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£24772 .18 RECEIVED
£1122.20 DISALLOWED

16/11/00 34 £144 ,89¢.68

GROUP 5S
£139,190.51 3 CRDERS TOTSL VALUE
£175.00 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED
Ci7S.00 CISA
GRO!
1
‘ CLA
£46
GROUP 7
‘ 6 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE

£1362.20 CLAIMED SUT
NOT RECEIVED
£1362 .20 DISALLCWED

GROUP 19

& ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£432.22 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED

£438 .22 DISALLOWED

TCTAL VALUE
+27 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED

£1411.27 DISALLOWED

GROUP 14
16 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£1774.82 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED

CONT.... £1774.82 DISALLOWED

COMPLETED BY I GRO 28/6/01 CHECKED BY 4

POL00118219
POLO00118219

rel a" ANW 52/01 PAGE 3

OFFICE: CLEVELEYS
>FD RE NWB/066/01 BCI

CODE: 153/405

WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS.
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL
15/11/00 34 CONT....

GROUP 13
1 ORDER VALUE £5)

CLAIMED AS ELC .2

£0.01 CISALLOWED

£139,238.68 £2,702.54 GROUP 10
£126 ,533.14 1 CRDER VALUE £89.84
CLAIMED AS £89.34
£O.50 ALLOWED
GROUP 13
1 ORDER VALUE £29.15
CLAIMED AS £89.13
f £0.02 ALLOWED

GROUP 13
1 ORDER VALUE £78.65
CLAIMED AS £72.45

L
£0.20 ALLCWLD

ORDERS TOTAL YALUE
£10108.20 RECEIVED
£60.00 DISALLOWED

GROUP 7

40 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE

£6170.41 CLAIMED. 3?
OTAL VALL

CONT...-

COMPLETED BY I “B8/6/01 CHECKED BY

POL00118219
POL00118219

=NW 52/01 PAGE 4 OFFICE:CLEVELEYS

:NWB/066/01 BCI CODE:153/7405
WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL
22/11/00 35 CONT.... GROUP 13

932 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£68861.01 CLAIMED. 922
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£68183.62 RECEIVED
£677.39 DISALLOWED

GROUP 14

221 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£25104.40 CLAIMED. 216
o YALUT

3S RCCEILVED

LLOWED

COMPLETED BY

GRO Ze76/01 CHECKED BY

\o)

POL00118219

POL00118219
7 o_ 2
~ anil 7“ * t
CLEVELEYS MSPO - ITINERARY OF ITEMS REMOVED FROM THE PREMISES
DETAILS OF ITEM SERIAL No /etc DATE REMOVED I BY WHOM (PON/ SIGNATURE/COMMENTS
ROMEC/etc)
Cain Scola <1
t
I
Manvel & >Boa-o! E-naML e
AXevs yen x >I Bera ot Ey Tats Po [oben ACS A yy
ant _odcoW\e
Gwew 00 tapas eet ua. aTet oN TAG vas. I P™GRO
Quanto ty Sebo 2001 NT Team -
Foe Macro iw Glo 2001 Romec
bur eb? Gad oC ise G39 300 I NV Tew -
\y Sodesdeus, 3 = sx Glo 2901 enw

Par AV Soles tanto Muadates Old ACCESS A rarer
sd cord bo Aare - tele toy,
© Rowtnon on a2-0-ol
- Bod ya “Sen Cele

t-—~

_—

POL00118219
POL00118219

fw
a i Qa
CLEVELEYS MSPO - ITINERARY OF ITEMS REMOVED FROM THE PREMISES
DETAILS OF ITEM SERIAL No Jet DATE REMOVED I BY WHOM (PON/ SIGNATURE/COMMENTS
ROMEC/etc)

Letew Sealey ~~
PoxceA Seale at

Swern Neck )
Corea, he Chere Wt So 3001 Somec Seni_4s  Gventeny —
Mong Crearewe x] Ww Ge _ S01 Romeu Soar 4 Suaiery Ji i

Hoan Kit

Ss Rocesser3 Adv) pllodin wed bo ib + 3-5) -
Derx—re larkny on ren woe>d
S kan Bourvels AUers 0 ~AN\o pacqwad denied .
— Fon yt im Crvise -
IS Scncusan >
Main Panter

S_ Sapnosv

perie-Sly

GN =

emaver!

POL00118219
POL00118219

Claimant
RU Robinson
First
Exhibits “RUR1”
Dated : 17 October 2003

CLAIM NO CR101947
IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT
BETWEEN
POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED
Claimant
AND
MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME
Defendant

‘

WITNESS STATEMENT OF REBECCA URSULA ROBINSON

1, REBECCA URSULA ROBINSON of First Floor, Leeds CDO, 3 Infirmary Street, Leeds,
LS1 1AJ STATE AS FOLLOWS:

1 I am employed by Post Office Limited, formerly Post Office Counters Limited (“the
Post Office”) as Personnel Advisor. I have been employed by the Post Office since
1985.

2 The facts and matters deposed to in this statement are within my own knowledge

unless I say so. In so far as they are within my own knowledge, they are true. In so
far as they are derived from information provided to me by others, they are true to the
best of my knowledge and belief. Those now produced and shown to me an Exhibit
marked “RUR1” exhibiting copy documents to which I shall refer in this statement.

3 At the time of Mrs Wolstenholme’s suspension I was part of the Deployment Team
responsible for the Northern Territories. My responsibilities included the maintaining

of a consistent deployment of policies by advising Retail Line Managers regarding
those policies.
POL00118219

POL00118219

The Defendant, Julie Wolstenholme (“Mrs Wolstenholme”) was suspended on 30
November 2000. I was contacted by Elaine Tagg, the Retail Network Manager
between 30 November and 5 December 2000. Elaine Tagg’s responsibilities include
supervising the performance of sub postmasters and sub post offices for the Post
Office and ensuring that they deal with customers in line with the Post Office’s policy.
Elaine's duties include ensuring that service is maintained at the offices and ensuring
that sub postmasters are properly carrying out their responsibilities.

The title Retail Network Manager was changed to Retail Line Manager. The Retail
Line Managers can come to the Personnel Advisors for advice. Whilst the Retail
Line Managers have all the necessary procedures and processes to hand,
occasionally they will seek a second opinion or clarification from a Personnel Advisor.

When Elaine Tagg contacted me between 30 November 2000 and 5 December 2000,
she informed me that Mrs Wolstenholme had been suspended and informed me of
the reasons why Mrs Wolstenholme had been suspended. One of the reasons was
that Mrs Wolstenholme had switched off the Horizon system and had reverted to the
manual system. The Horizon system is an automated system and the Post Office
have an obligation to automate. If a sub postmaster switches the Horizon system off
and refuses to use it, this can cause problems with the contract between the Post
Office and its supplier. It is part of the sub postmaster’s contract that he/she must
adhere to the Post Office procedures, one of them being the use of the Horizon
system.

I was also informed by Elaine Tagg that there were substantial losses currently being
held in Mrs Wolstenholme’s account which she had failed to repay and that there was
a large number of error notices. I Elaine Tagg had therefore suspended Mrs
Wolstenholme whilst matters were being investigated.

Following a suspension, the sub postmaster must be given the reasons for the
suspension and why consideration is being given to the termination of his/her contract
for services. A letter was therefore sent by Elaine Tagg to Mrs Wolstenholme on 5
December 2000 setting out the position. A copy of that letter is at pages 1-2 of
“RUR1” and as can be seen from that letter, Mrs Wolstenholme was given an
opportunity to answer the charges and put forward any reasons why the contract for
services should not be terminated by either written representations or by way of a

formal interview.

N
10

11

12

POL00118219

POL00118219

Following my discussions with Elaine Tagg, I prepared a Summary of Events from the
information which she had provided and from the files of the Post Office. A copy of
the Summary of Events is at pages 3-6 of “RUR1”. On 12 January 2001, I sent a
copy of the Summary of Events to Paul Williams in Liverpool by e-mail (pages 7-8 of
“RUR1”) seeking his views in relation to the proposed termination of Mrs
Wolstenholme’s contract. Paul Williams was the Contract Specialist and if there
was ever any issue with regard to a particular contract, the Retail Line Managers
would approach him for advice. It can be seen from the e-mail to Paul Williams that I
was specifically seeking advice as to whether we could proceed by way of summary
termination or by termination on three month's notice. It can be seen from my e-mail
that between 5 December 2000 and 12 January 2001, Elaine Tagg had also sought
advice from Steve Gibbs regarding the Horizon policy and she had also discussed the
matter at length with Tony Biolchi as well as discussing the matter with myself.

Elaine was trying to obtain as much information and advice as possible in relation to
the situation.

After I became involved in the matter, I was then involved in the drafting/approval of
subsequent correspondence to Mrs Wolstenholme. This is evident, in particular, from
the exchange of e-mails passing between Elaine Tagg and I on 17 and 18 January
2001 (page 9-16 of “RUR1”)

By letter dated 19 January 2001, Mrs Wolstenholme was given three months’ notice
of termination of her contract for services. A copy of that letter is at pages 17-18 of
“RUR1”. Following the termination of her contract, the Post Office then had to deal
with the position with regard to the losses on her account and the payment of her
remuneration. A copy of the summary of losses as at 22 January 2001 is at page 19
of “RUR1”. The total losses.on the account ultimately amounted to £25,034.04 and
an itemised breakdown of this figure is at pages 20-21 of “RUR1”. The remuneration
due to Mrs Wolstenholme is in the sum of £19,322.85 which when deducted from the
losses leaves a balance due to the Post Office in the sum of £5,711.19.

When a sub postmaster is suspended, the Post Office then attempt {> appoint a
temporary sub postmaster to carry on with the running of the office. Asif Patel was
appointed subject to terms being agreed between himself and Mrs Wolstenholme.
Unfortunately terms could not be agreed as Mrs Wolstenholme would not release a
key to the front door of the premises and was insisting on letting Mr Patel in the

Bau

wo
POL00118219
POL00118219

Pip

premises in the moming and then locking up once he departed in the evening. In
addition, agreement could not be reached with regard to the level of rent which Mrs
Wolstenholme was seeking to charge which was in excess of what was considered to
be reasonable.

13 Onor about 6 February 2001, I was informed that Mr Patel had withdrawn his interest
in baing appointed as temporary sub postmaster.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true.

Signed : 4

Dated : In [roloz

sas
POL00118219
POL00118219

Claimant

RU Robinson

First

Exhibit “RUR1”

Dated : 17 October 2003

CLAIM NO CR101947

IN THE BLACKPOOL COUNTY COURT
BETWEEN ,

POST OFFICE COUNTERS LIMITED

Claimant
AND
MRS JULIE WOLSTENHOLME
Defendant
EXHIBIT “RUR1”

This is Exhibit marked “RUR1” referred to in the witness statement of Rebecca Ursula
Robinson dated the 17" of October 2003.

Sale
POL00118219
POL00118219

Mrs J Wolstenholme

5" December 2000

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

I wrote to you on Thursday 30" November 2000 confirming the suspension of your contract for
services as subpostmaster of Cleveleys MSPO.

Thave now received papers relating to this case and after reviewing them I am now considering the
termination of your contract for services on the following grounds :-

Your failure to meet your obligation to manage the office properly which constitutes a breach of
Section 1(M) para 5 of your contract. This states that retention of the appointment as a subpostmaster
depends upon the office being well managed and the work performed properly to the satisfaction of
Post Office Counters. The excessive number of error notices, 38 to date between weeks 1 and 32, is
unacceptable and as detailed in my letter of 20" November 2000 , indicates a lack of checking
procedures in your office. During the final audit of your office a further 4 error notices, issued to your
office by Chesterfield were found on hand. These should have been brought to account during week
36. One of these error notices for £533.00 had been issued to you on 15" November and the other 3 on
22™ November Section 11(M) para 3 of your contract states that “the subpostmaster will be responsible
for ensuring that transactions are carried out accurately” and that “all documentation is properly
completed and despatched at the due time.

‘Your failure to account for official cash and stock properly ..e. your refusal to operate the Horizon
system installed in your office is a clear breach of Section 12 para 4 of your contract. This states that
the subpostmaster must ensure that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him by Post Office
Counters are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Counters. The operation of the Horizon system
in post offices is fundamental to both the success of our business and the reconciliation processes

we have with our clients and your refusal to operate it is a breach of your contract. . A check of the
Littlewoods scratchcards also revealed £60 worth accounted for as stock on hand which should have
been withdrawn previously.

You are now given an opportunity to answer the charges and put forward any reasons why your
contract for services should not be terminated. You can do this by submitting written representations
or requesting an interview.

Our prearranged interview for Friday 8" December 2000 will now be deemed cancelled and you
should communicate with me within ten working days (Monday to Friday) from the date following the
date of this notification. Shouls you choose an interview, you may be accompnaied at the interview by
a friend who must be a Post Office employee, a Subpostmaster or registered Sub Office Assistant, and
may also be a local representative of the National Federation of Subpostmasters.

Your sincerely

3a7
POL00118219
POL00118219

Elaine Tagg
Retail Network Manager
POL00118219
POL00118219

Cleveley’s MSPO

Summary of events
5.12.2000Family transfer to the new subpostmistress Julie Wolstenholme

5.12.2000 Julie received some training as she was already aware of a
number of transactions as she had been working as an assistant

5.12.2000 —‘ The office went live on the Horizon system. There were a
number of problems so the ‘go-live’ was aborted. The assistants
at the office had been on the wrong course which caused further
problems. This was then dealt with and the office eventually
went live. Elaine felt that the actual go-live went smoothly.

Unknown Problems began to occur so Elaine Tagg, RNM, asked the office
to use a call log for any calls made about the horizon system.
This was not used.

May 2000 __, Elaine visited the office with a rep from ICL Liaison. This was
due to a problem with the ISDN line.

5.12.2000 _—_ Elaine issued the office with a balancing timetable which other
offices had used. She suggested that this may help to identify if
there were any problems operationally. Elaine also suggested
that it would be beneficial to record the office dailies manually.
This was never done. In fact when Elaine suggested the
manually daily record Julie refused to use it saying it would
cause extra work and went to the NFSP for advice.

5.12.2000 Audit of accounts showed a surplus of £16.32

5.12.2000  £2497.97 was held in the suspense account. Elaine asked Julie to
repay this amount. A letter was sent from Elaine to Julie.

5.12.2000 ___ Individual stock units were introduced at the office. This was
Julie’s decision. Elaine did not give any instruction for this to
happen.

5.12.2000  Sharmian Niel carried out a senior manager visit. At this stage
there had already been a number of losses at the office adding
up to over 2K. There was a mention of the Horizon system on
Sherman's feedback sheet but the comment was that things were
getting better.

24.08.2000 I RNM made further visits. There were concerns about the

3a4
@

01.09.2000
07.09.2000

Unknown

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

5.12.2000

POL00118219
POL00118219

number of error notices but no corresponding surpluses

Further Bureau de Change training was carried out at the office

Elaine carried out an outlet review. An action plan was left at
the office

Elaine received a phone call from Julie saying the system had
crashed

Elaine visited the office. She checked the stocks. She warned
Julie that she should not ‘switch off’ the Horizon system.

Elaine sent a letter to Julie regarding the losses at the office and
that she should adhere to working practices. Elaine requested
that the losses should be made.

Letter sent again regarding repaying losses

No reply so a letter was sent to ask Julie in to interview

The office was not rolled over as a large shortage was reported.
Julie refused to roll over because she would have to declare the
loss. The office began to use the manual system. Elaine issued a
verbal warning to say that the system should continue to be
used and that Julie would be in breach of contract if they did not
use the Horizon system.

At 0945 Elaine handed Julie a suspension letter after a further
refusal to use the Horizon system.

Charge letter sent to Julie. The charge was refusal to use
Horizon system and concerns over managing the office.

Feel for the balancing record

Week 1-7 £2497.97 short

Week 7-14 No shortages

Week 15

The office balanced exactly

Week 16 - 20 A number of misbalances. Mainly losses but some gains. No

calls were made to Elaine to let her know of the losses.

330
Other Issues

There have been a number of error notices at the office. There have been
about 38 for the Bureau de Change alone. Further training on the Bureau has
been given. However, Elaine spot checked the Bureau and found that
Travellers cheques had not been accounted for correctly, some of the
currencies were not declared correctly and the cash on hand was not checked

so the amount being input into Horizon was not necessarily the correct figure.

Error notices have also been received from Girobank.

There are real concerns about the running of the office. Elaine has not had
notification about the losses. They have not tried to carry out the suggested
best working practices that Elaine had suggested. The main aim of asking the
office to carry out the tasks suggested was to try to identify if there were
accounting problems.

Elaine attended the office to watch the balance to see if there were any
improvements she could suggest. Elaine got a sense that the controls and the
organisation towards balancing could be improved.

There is also £50 in scratch cards which should have been returned. Julie has
not followed instructions in the Counter News about sending them back.

Why we reached the decision of summary termination

Julie complained about the Horizon system saying that she was having real
problems, which were resulting in the number of losses at the office. Initially
there was a problem with the ISDN line. This was rectified. Elaine asked for
copies of calls made from Cleveleys office and after an initial spate of calls
there were hardly any. Elaine and I both felt that if there was a real and
sustained problem with the Horizon system then this would be borne out by
the fact that a number of calls had been made.

The numbers of losses at the office were not reported to Elaine. Elaine
explained that a letter is sent to offices, every 6 months, to explain that any
losses over £200 must be reported to the RNM. We felt that this was a
requirement of offices to notify the RNM and felt that there was either a
reason for the non-reporting or that Julie is having difficulties running and
managing the office.

When Sharmian visited the office the problems with the Horizon system were
not emphasised. You could argue that Julie thought this was not the

appropriate method of feeding this to the business or that there were other
reasons for this.

33)

POL00118219
POLO00118219
Elaine had continued to ask Julie to make good her losses. Julie did not
respond to Elaine’s letters and then refused to make them good. Julie did say
that this was because of faults on the Horizon system. We felt that this was,

again, due to another reason or the fact that Julie was having difficulties
running the office.

Elaine had already written to Julie on a number of occasions saying that error
notices should be brought to account and (as above) losses made good. These
letters were either not responded to or if they were it was to say that the
losses were not accepted as being Julie’s responsibility. The lack of response

again added to the fact that we felt Julie was struggling with running the
office.

We have real concerns over the Bureau and how this is being managed. There
has been extra training given but fundamental errors made. These are: items
not booked in correctly, checking procedures not carried out effectively, cash
declaration not robust and the number of error notices being sent to the office
on Bureau alone. This was a key area where we felt there were real lack of
controls which again impacted on the overall running of the office.

‘
The number of error notices at the office was a real concern. Although the
majority were linked to the Bureau there are a number of others.

There is a substantial loss now outstanding at the office. This amounts to
around £14K. Although Julie feels this is linked to the Horizon system there’
is no proof of this. We felt that due to the other problems at the office we did
not feel confident that the loss was because of the Horizon system but more

likely to be because of the numbers of error notices and the poor contraols at
the office.

Horizon Issue

I realise there is an issue around Horizon. The policy stated that 3 months
notice should be given if somebody refuses to use the Horizon system.
However, we came to the decision that Horizon was only part of the problem.
There are concerns about the way the office is managed and real concerns
over safeguarding business funds. We felt that the amount of the loss of £14K
could not be ignored and the explanation of all the loss being due to the
horizon system could not be proved.

If you take Horizon out of the equation then this office is still having serious
problems. Training has been given but improvements not made.

332

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

Electronic memo

To: Elizabeth Joyce; “GRO ~ /
ce: . —

Hard Copy To:

Hard Copy ce:

Date: 12/01/2001 17:16

From: Rebecca U Robinson

Subject: a) Fwd: Cleveleys - URGENT

~— To:

ce: Elaine Tagg/
Biolchi/e,__

Hard Copy To:
Hard Copyce: ‘
Date: 12/01/2001 16:15
From: Rebecca U Robinson
Subject: Cleveleys - URGENT

Paut- Please can you help with the case below.

I have attached a document which will give you details about a situation at Cleveleys MSPO. The
RNM is Elaine Tagg. Elaine and I have looked through the case and have a view that summary
termination should be givén to this office. However, there are concerns about the fact that Horizon
system is involved. In the Horizon policy, if somebody refuses to use the system, then 3 months
f « notice should be given. In fact, Elaine sought advice from Steve Gibbs as she perceived it may be a
} wider issue and he suggested 3 months notice as the course of action.

We are now at the stage where we need to decide whether it's summary termination or 3 months
notice. Both Elaine and I feel that summary termination is the way forward as Horizon is only part of
the problem, but also understand that there may be wider business issues which I think you will be
able to help us with. Elaine has discussed this with Tony and obviously he wants to ensure that the
correct decision is made. We want to make sure that there is no comeback and that the business is
happy with the way forward both in terms of following the correct process and any wider implications
that this decision may introduce.

Please can you let me know your views on this? Elaine has further details but I have tried to
summarise all the issues without sending you the 2 A4 files that contain all the letters etc.

iW]

ClevelysSummofevents.

Thanks

333
POL00118219
POL00118219

Rebecca

Personnel Advisor
Post Office Network
Personnel

1st Floor, Leeds CDO, 3 Infirmary Street, LEEDS, LS1 1AJ

External eMail: rebecca.u.robinson( = GRO

33
u

POL00118219

POL00118219

Electronic memo

To:

ce: Elizabeth Joyce/
Hard Copy To:

Hard Copy cc:

Date: 17/01/2001 17:27
From: Rebecca U Robinson

Subject: a Re: Cleveleys MSPO

Elaine - See what you think of my letter below. I've tried to make sure that it's clear we are getting

involved because we want to maintain service, but that Asif would be the one who would have the
agreement.

This is only my suggestion. See what you think. There may be bits you think are OK from mine which
you could add into yours or vice versa

W

Premises3.do _

Talk to you soon
Rebecca

To: Rebecca U Robinson/

To: Rebecca U Robinson/e!_
ce:

Hard Copy To:

Hard Copy cc:

Date: 17/01/2001 09:40
From: Elaine Tagg

Subject: Cleveleys MSPO

Dear Rebecca

draft re use of premises as discussed

Elaine

premises 2.do

335
POL00118219
POL00118219

2

Mrs J Wolstenholme

I nee, i 17° January 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

Further to my letter of 18 December 2000, which reminded you that Post Office Network is
F endeavouring to retain post office service from your premises, I have been approached by Mr Asif
4 Patel about the possibility of using your premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys. Unfortunately

some of the conditions in the “licence to operate a Post Office” from these premises are not acceptable
to Post Office Network.

Specifically not allowing full unrestricted access to both the Post Office “allocated space” nor the
public area in which our customers would be expected to wait for service would be an unacceptable
condition upon which we would appoint an agent. In short the provision of a front door key to the
premises would need to be included in any agreement you reached with any prospective appointee to
the office. Your restriction on who can access the premises via the back door is also unacceptable to
Post Office Network. Representatives of Post Office Network need to be allowed onto the premises
out of hours for various reasons and for a landlord to restrict access in this way in unacceptable to Post
Office Network.

You should also be advised that at least one quarters notice on a tenancy would be required for us to
consider premises suitable.

Post Office Network must be fully agreeable to any contract which relates to premises from which to j
conduct its business from. I

r ]

‘ I must now ask that, if you intend to make you premises available, in a full and unrestricted manner,
from which Post Office Network can offer services to the public from, you let me know in writing
within 5 days from the date of this letter.

If I do not hear from you agreeing to these conditions then I shall take it that you do not wish to offer
your premises to us under these terms and you should be advised that Post Office Network will
actively seek to provided alternative premises from which to operate.

Yours sincerely

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

336
o

Further to my letter dated 18 December 2000, which reminded you that Post
Office Network is endeavouring to retain post office services from your
premises, I have been approached by Mr Asif Patel about the possibility of
using your premises at 2 Runnymede Avenue, Cleveleys.

Unfortunately, Asif requires full unrestricted access to both the Post Office
‘allocated space’ and the public area in which customers would be expected to
wait for service. In short, the provision of a front door key to the premises
would need to be provided to ensure the safety of customers and to ensure
that service could be provided within the prescribed office opening hours.

Thope you can appreciate that it is in your best interests, and those of Post
Office Network, to allow an interim subpostmaster to offer post office services
from your premises. This will help to sustain customer levels ensuring that
the office continues to be viable. Post Office Network is keen to maintain a
service at Cleveleys to ensure we meet customer needs.

If you intend to make your premises available, in a full and unrestricted
manner, from which Post Office Network can offer services to the public, can I
ask that you let me know in writing within 5 days from the date of this letter.
If I do not hear from you then I shall take it that you do not wish to offer your
premises to us and you should be advised that Post Office Network will

actively seek to provide alternative premises from which to operate.

Yours

337

POL00118219
POL00118219

>
Electronic memo

To: Elizabeth Joyce/

ce:

Hard Copy To:

Hard Copy cc:

Date: 18/01/2001 11:18

From: Rebecca U Robinson
Subject: & Fwd: Re: Cleveleys MSPO

For your info

To:
ce:
Hard Copy To:
Hard Copy cc:

Date:
From:

Subject:

Elaine Tagg __

18/01/2001 11:07
Rebecca U Robinson

Re: Cleveleys MSPO

POL00118219
POL00118219

Elaine - please find below my suggested letter. Again this is for your to decide which is better and you
may like parts of mine and bits of yours. y

I could not find the RTU letter in my papers so can I just ask that you ensure the same charge is
reflected in the first part of the letter. It should state the same

Cleveleys3months.d

A letter will follow with details of remuneration as stated in the letter above. I thought it may be better
to split out the remuneration aspects as they will not be happy with the situation and the letter has
loads of detail in it. Give me a call if you want to discuss this and if you think it sits OK as I suggest.

If you are happy with this letter and you want to send it out can you let me know and I will organise
instruction to go to the service centre to ensure remuneration is correct etc.

Rebecca

To: Rebecca U Robinso1

33%
POL00118219
POL00118219

To: Rebecca U Robinsoni_

cc:

Hard Copy To:

Hard Copy ce:

Date: 15/01/2001 10:33
From: Elaine Tagg
Subject: Cleveleys MSPO

Dar Rebecca

Trying to get a little ahead of myself and just in case we get the go ahead to go with summary
termination I have had a first stab at the termination letter,

can you have a look at it and give me you views?

Thanks
: elaine
Xu

termination.do
¢

339
POL00118219
POL00118219

Burordhh

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

I am writing following your written submissions as to why you consider your
contract as Subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO should not be terminated as a
result of your failure to meet your obligations to manage the office properly
and your failure to account for official cash and stock.

Ihave reviewed the papers relating to the case very carefully and have taken
into account your comments from your written submissions.

There have been a number of error notices and subsequent losses made at the
office and you have failed to contact me regarding misbalances at your office.
I refer you to the general letter, which was sent to all offices in April 2000,
which stated that you should notify me of any losses over £200.

I supplied you with aids to help produce a satisfactory balance on 16 March
2000 and suggested you introduce accounting records on the office action
plan of 12 October 2000. I also reminded you to use checking procedures on 3
November 2000. You decided not to carry out any of these suggested actions.

You failed to make good the loss from week ending 2 August 2000 and did
not inform me until 17 August 2000. You refused to provide details of how
the losses at the office were to be made good, despite requests on 3 November
2000 and 20 November 2000.

Due to the number of losses and losses not being made good the office was
showing an overall loss of £14109.91 at the date of your suspension.

Following your suspension, error notices were found in the office, which had
not been brought to account.

Stock on hand at the office, namely scratchcards, were found to be included in
the office balance but were in fact obsolete. Instructions for withdrawal had
been issued to all offices.

I have taken into account your concerns about the Horizon system but in the
absence of any supporting documentation from yourself to substantiate your
claim and lack of evidence from the call logs I cannot accept your reasoning.

I have therefore decided, in accordance with ‘Section 1 paragraph 9 of your
contract for services, to give you 3 months notice of the termination of that
contract. Your last day of service will be 28 February 2001. I will forward
you, in due course, a letter regarding the remuneration due to you in lieu of
that notice.

Yours...

34o
January 2001

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

1am writing following your written submissions as to why you consider your contract as
Subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO should not be terminated as a result of your failure to meet your
obligation to manage the office properly and your failure to account for official cash and stock
properly.

Ihave reviewed the papers relating to the case very carefully and have taken into account your
comments from your written submissions.

Despite my supplying you with aids to help produce a satisfactory balance on 16% March 2000, not to
introduce accounting records as per the office action plan of 12" October 200 and my reminder to use
checking procedures on 3 November 2000, your decision not to implement any of these actions has
directly contributed to the number of error notices and subsequent losses made at the office. Your
failure to contact me regarding misbalances as per the general letter to all office in April 2000 also
shows a lack of proper mariagement of the accounts. Your failure to make good the loss from week
ending 2™ August 2000 and not to have informed me until 17" August again shows your failure to
manage the office properly. You refusal to provided details of how the losses at the office are to be
made good, despite requests on 3™ November 2000 and 20" November 2000 also contribute tomy
decision.

Your failure not to bring to account error notices, issued previously but found in the office following
your suspension, was another factor taken into account.

I have also considered that stock on hand at the office, for which instructions on withdrawal had been
issued, was found to constitute part of your balance on final audit.

Thave taken into account your concerns about the Horizon system but in the absence of any supporting
documentation from yourself to substantiate your claim, evidence from Retail Network Managers and
Auditors directly contradicting your claim and the lack of evidence from the calls logs that you had
contacted them about problems you said you were experiencing, cannot accept your reasoning.

Sul

POL00118219
POL00118219

Tauren,
8,

Ihave therefore decided to terminate your contract as Subpostmaster of Cleveleys MSPO from the date
of your suspension on the grounds that you failed in your obligation to manage the office properly,
which constitutes a breach of Section 1(M) para 5 of your contract and also that you failed to account
for official cash and stock properly a further breach of you contract, Section 9(M) para 4.

You may, if you wish, appeal against my de4cision and if it is your intention to appeal you should
notify me in writing within ten working days (Monday to Friday) of receipt of this letter. I will then
arrange for your appeal to be heard by a member of Post Office Network Appeals Authority.

Please note and return once copy of this letter immediately in the envelope provided. A second copy is
enclosed for your retention.

Yours sincerely,

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

To Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

Ihave noted the contents of this letter

Signed Date

Julie Wolstenholme, Subpostmaster, Cleveleys MSPO

342

POL00118219
POL00118219
M«

POL00118219
POLO00118219

\\
/

Mrs J Wolstenholme

GRO Cleveleys

GRO I

Dear Mrs Wolstenholme

I am writing following your written submissions as to why you consider your
contract as Subpostmaster at Cleveleys MSPO should not be terminated as a
result of your failure to meet your obligation to manage the office properly
and your failure to account for official cash and stock properly.

Ihave reviewed the papers relating to the case very carefully and have taken
into account your comments from your written submissions.

There have been a number of error notices and subsequent losses made at the
office and you have failed to contact me regarding misbalances at your office.
I refer you to the general letter, which was sent to all offices in April 2000,
which stated that you should notify me of any losses over £200.

I supplied you with aids to help produce a satisfactory balance on 16 March
2000 and suggested you introduce accounting records on the office action
plan of 12 October 2000. I also reminded you to use checking procedures on 3
November 2000. You decided not to carry out any of these suggested actions.

You failed to make good the loss from week ending 2 August 2000 and did
not inform me until 17 August 2000. You refused to provide details of how __
the losses at the office were to be made good, despite requests on 3 November

2000 and 20 November 2000.

Post Office Network

Post Office Counters Led

Birley Street
Preston
PREIAZ
Customer helping”
won postfce-counters.couk

24 Bet Row Lnton FCTY

POL00118219
POL00118219

x
Due to the number of losses and losses not being made-good the office was
showing an overall loss of £14109.91 at the date of your suspension.

Following your suspension, error notices were found in the office, which had
not been brought to account.

Stock on hand at the office, namely scratchcards, were found to be included in

the office balance but were in fact obsolete. Instructions for withdrawal had
been issued to all offices.

Thave taken into account your concerns about the Horizon system but in the
absence of any supporting documentation from yourself to substantiate your
claim and lack of evidence from the call logs I cannot accept your reasoning.

Thave therefore decided, in accordance with ‘Section 1 paragraph 9 of your
contract for services, to give you 3 months notice of the termination of that
contract. Your last day of service will be 28 February 2001. I will forward

you, in due course, a letter regarding the remuneration due to you in lieu of
that notice.

Yours sincerely

Elaine M Tagg
Retail Network Manager

ee

CLEVELEYS LOSSES AS AT MONDAY 22*° JANUARY 2001

FINAL ACOUNT SHORTAGE 14,109.91

Error notices in the system not yet brought to account

week 21 w/e 16" August 63.39 claim
week 24 w/e/ 6" Sept 17.00 charge
week 25 we 13" Sept REMS IN 2561.81 charge
week 30 18" October 45.00 charge
week 35 w/e 22 November 14,200.00 charge
week 36 w/e 29" November 14,000.00 claim
week 37 w/e 6" December REMS IN 955.04 charge (this may have been as a result of the
. suspension so may/may not be “proper”)
week 37 w/e 6" December 22.54 claim

TOTAL IF ALL PROVE TO BE “PROPER” = £17,825.37

34s

POL00118219
POL00118219
wor

Part 3

Date

04/12/2000
11/10/2000
03/11/2000
09/11/2000
04/12/2000
29/11/2000
10/08/2000
04/12/2000
22/11/2000

‘aud it Manager

POL00118219

POL00118219

Particulars Charges
Final Cash A/c balance 141093.91
MY RENEWAL FEES

85.25
AUTOMATED PRODUCTS
PERSONAL BANKING
BUREAU DE CHANGE FCS REV.
REMS FM OTHER OFFICES 200,00

TRAVELLERS CHE@. PURCHASE
SPSO FRAUD +00

PENSIONS & ALLOWANCES 10804.81

TOTAL

NETT TOTAL

Bue

Allowances

100.0¢
100.06
22.54

63.3

POL00118219
POL00118219

TP6

FORMER SUBPOSTMASTERS STATEMENT OF ERRORS
OFFICE NAME ......

DATE OF ERROR 22./.1\../
CASH ACCOUNT LINE No.

Supporting Document Total = £ ...

DETAILS OF ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)
P4A E@RORS IN THE PERIOD [8/i0/oo (30) — 22/i foo (35)

r

DATE OF ERROR......... Lo . WEEK No ......eeeeeosee

«+CHARGE/CLAIM

CASH ACCOUNT LINE No. .. LINE DESCRIPTION.

Cash Account Entry = £.... .. Supporting Document Total
’

DETAILS OF ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)

DATE OF ERROR ..

.CHARGE/CLAIM

CASH ACCOUNT LINE No.

.,, LINE DESCRIPTION...

Cash Account Entry = £.

ssosssnseneee Supporting Document Total = £ o....sscsccssssuecceseeeseeees

DETAILS OF ERROR (PLEASE PROVIDE FULL SUPPORTING EVIDENCE)

Tick if manual JV required Duty Holders Signature .......
NB A manual JV is needed when an error is forced i
after the CLASS data has been archived Authorised/Checked by(POA)..é

(REVISED NOV 98)

3uF
POL00118219

POL00118219
f

‘03/04 "01 TUE 13:49 FA

NETWORK BANKING @oo

PAGE 1

OFFICE: CLEVELEYS
CODE: 153/405

WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL” CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL :

18/10/00 30 £147 ,961.34 £3 ,065.78

GROUP 14
£151,027.12

1 ORDER VALUE £114.65
CLAIMED BUT NOT RECEIVED
£114.65 DISALLOWED

GROUP 5

GROUP TOTAL OF £9710.95
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £9510.95
£200.00 ALLOWED

GROUP 6
GROUP TOTAL OF £2708.84
& C/FWO TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £2408.84
£300.00 ALLOWED

GROUP 10

GROUP TOTAL OF £18953.59
C/FWO TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £18747 .26
£206.33 ALLOWED

GROUP 11

GROUP TOTAL OF £6340.20
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £6263.05
£77.15 ALLOWED

GROUP 13
GROUP TOTAL OF £78135.79
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
> DOCKET AS £76148 .37
£1987 .42 ALLOWED
a.

GROUP 14

GROUP TOTAL OF £26919 .36
C/FWD TO FRONT OF MAIN
DOCKET AS £26509.83
£409.53 ALLOWED

34s
POL00118219
POL00118219

4

eg OFFICE: CLEVELEYS
“& G@BiNW 52/01 PAGE 1

+FD RE” jNWB/066/01 Bcl

“WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS.
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL

¥*./10/00 29 £143,953.06 £5,477.88

GROUP 5
£138 ,475.1¢e 192 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE

£7200.55 CLAIMED. 184
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£6925.25 RECEIVED

£265

265.20 DISALLOWED

GROUP 6
4S ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
ree aehe CLAIMED.

ROCRG TOTAL VALUE

9 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
4 9581.04 CLAIMED. S&
BERS TOTAL VALUE
381.04 RECEIVED
OO .CO CISALLOWE:

mimo tre

GROUP 10

143 CRDERS TOTAL VALU
£15694 .97 CLAIMED. 12:
ORDERS TCTAL VALUE
£15220 .62 RECEIVED
£474.35 DISALLOWED

Ee
S

GROUP 11
Be Of SERS ST AL VA

£641 SIMED. C2

1017 ORDERS TOTAL VALVE
£74222.45 CLAIMED. 976

ORDERS TOTAL VALUE

£71340 .62 RECEIVED

£2881.22 DISALLOWED
CONT .

© MPLETED BY I

8/6 hie CHECKED BY

344

OFFICE:

PFO RF jNWB/066/01 BcI

CODE:

POL00118219
POL00118219

CLEVELEYS
153/405

WEEK
ENDED

WEEK DOCKET TOTAL
NO AMENDED TOTAL

CHARGE CLAIM

ERRORS

11/10/00 29 CONT....

15/11/00

CONT...-

GROUP 14
227 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£2589S.38 CLAIMED. 218
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£24772.18 RECEIVED
£1123.20 DISALLOWED
eRouP 5S
3 CRDERS
£175.00 ©
NOT RECEL
ie}

AL VALUE
MED SUT

a
pOHA

ci7s.

GROUP 7

6 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£12362 .20 CLAIMED SUT
NOT RECEIVED
£1362.20 DISALLOWED

UP 10
ROERS TOTAL VALUE
8.22 CLAIMED BUT

R

POL
QAWOD

DISALLOWED

srour

21 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£1411.27 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED

£1411.27 DISALLOWED

GROUP 14

16 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£1774.82 CLAIMED BUT
NOT RECEIVED

£1774 .82 DISALLOWED

COMPLETED BY

28/6/01

CHECKED BY

3So

!

Bt /5t

vel S-anw s2voi PAGE 3
PFD RE NWB/066/01 BCI

POL00118219
POL00118219

OFFICE:CLEVELEYS
CODE: 1537405

WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL

CLAIM

ERRORS

53711700 34 CONT....

GROUP 13
1 ORDER VALUE £50.2

CLAIMED AC EDC

AIMED AS ELC
£0.01 CISALLOWED

22/11/00 35 £139 ,22
£13¢,52)

CONT...-

GROUP 10

1 ORDER VALUE £89.84
CLAIMED AS £89.34
£0.50 ALLOWED

GROUP 123

1 ORDER VALUE £99.15
CLAINED AS £89.13
£0.02 ALLOWED

GROUP S
225 S TOTAL VAL
£10168.26 CLAIMED. 2
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£10108.20 RECEIVED
£60.00 DISALLOWED

GROUP 7
490 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£6170.41 CLAIMED. 39

OMPLETED BY I”

CHECKED BY

35)

4
EFiNW 52/01

PAGE 4 OFFICE:

POL00118219
POL00118219

CLEVELEYS

PFD F:NWB/066/01 BCI CODE :153/405
WEEK WEEK DOCKET TOTAL CHARGE CLAIM ERRORS
ENDED NO AMENDED TOTAL

22/11/00 35 CONT.... GROUP 13

352

922 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£68861.01 CLAIMED. 922
ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£68183 .62 RECEIVED
£677 .39 DISALLOWED

GROUP 14

221 ORDERS TOTAL VALUE
£25104 .40 CLAIMED. 216
o VALUE

C3 RECEIVE

£952.37 DISALLOWED

nd

COMPLETED BY

To whom it may concern 20th July 2003

STATE AS FOLLOW:

Re: Cleveleys Post Office

I started working at Cleveleys Post Office in January 2000 the computers were installed

shortly after. Whilst I had only a few weeks on the manual system there was never any
problem with the balance.

However this all changed once the computers were installed, the system didn’t seem able to
cope with such a high volume of transactions, they were constantly crashing and entering
bogus transactions themselves - somehow!

On telephoning the helpline we were given many excuses, from ‘we were using it too fast’ to
‘the system specification wasn’t good enough for an office of this size.’ I particularly
remember one occasion. I worked part time and didn’t go in every day, when I came to
balance my till the computer printed out that I had issued a TV Licence on a day when I had
not been working - no explanation! Other times it would duplicate transactions of its own
accord.

On many occasions did things like this happen? There appeared to be no support at all. Here
we were with constant queues to the door, a very busy office with a useless system.

Mrs. Wolstenholme asked for help on numerous occasions only to be fobbed off with various
excuses the situation was going from bad to worse and nobody seemed interested to find out

why.

On the whole the Computer System was nothing but trouble from the day it was put in.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true

353

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

STATEMENT OF RAYMOND KNIGHT

I Raymond Knight of ee ee
will say as follows:

1 have worked for the Post Office for more than 20 years. I came to work at

Cleveleys MSPO in 1990. In 1999 Mrs Julie Wolstenholme took over as
Sub Postmistress.

My early days at Cleveleys MSPO when the Horizon system came into
force led me to believe it was not for me. I thought possibly I had not

learned enough or was not competent to use the system. I know since that
this was not so.

The system right up to being closed down was regularly on busy mode; it
was slow and sluggish making one a little impatient. Engineers came and
went and I wondered if Horizon was all it was said to be.

I have used the Horizon system since at other offices and found it to be

quick and efficient. Totally different from my experience at Cleveleys
MSPO.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true

= GRO

Dated: I
_T EDITH MARGARET JACKSON of
i STATE AS FOLLOWS:

I have worked in Post Offices for 18 years alongside my husband a
Postmaster for nearly 25 years. Two of the Post Offices were ex-crown offices
and they were very busy offices. Over the years we have had 5 Retail
Network Managers, Miss Tagg being the most unsympathetic and unhelpful
one of all. I personally think she was completely out of her depth in dealing
with the problems at Cleveleys MSPO when the Horizon system was installed.

Where is the justice when Mrs Wolstenholme who asked for help for 10
months, having had countless replacement base units, plus one engineer who
stated that the office needed a computer with a larger memory to cope with
the volume of work, did she, get closed down without notice within 45 minutes
of her reverting back to the old manual way of balancing the office, and not
using the computer system. When another office having similar problems and
a sympathetic Retail Network Manager get permission from Post Office

Counters Ltd and Horizon to go back to manual balancing until the problems
are sorted out.

We were all told that when Horizon was installed it would be much quicker in
all aspects of work and especially the balancing which took place every
Wednesday night. Reality was very different, there were many times when I
sat there apologising to customers that I couldn’t serve them due to the
system crashing, frozen screens and egg timers (which could stay on for 10
minutes or more) on screen indicating the system was busy. If it could not
cope with the work why wasn’t it upgraded?

All Post Offices are subject to spot checks. If there is anything amiss you are
checked more often. The auditors were very pleased with the way Mrs
Wolstenholme ran the office and they found everything to be, as it should.

On the day Cleveleys Post Office was shut down I asked Miss Tagg why she
was shutting the office and putting 7 staff out of work, when one easy solution
would have been to put one person from either the Post Office or Horizon into
the office for one or two weeks to try and get to the bottom of the problems.

Aweek after the Post Office had been closed Mrs Wolstenholme asked a rent
assessor to come to the office, as she had been told by Miss Tagg that the
Post Office would more than likely want to rent the building off her once a
temporary Sub Postmaster could be appointed. Mrs Wolstenholme got held
up so she asked me to show the rent assessor round. Miss Tagg who was in
the office at the time was very annoyed that a rent assessor had been called

‘

355

POL00118219
POL00118219
in and she would not let the assessor behind the counter of the office. She
said to my face that she would personally see to it that she would keep the
office closed and make plans to move it to another location, thus depriving
Mrs Wolstenholme of any rent. It was at this point that it really hit home that
she was out to ruin Mrs Wolstenholme.

I would like to say in all honesty that I seriously believe that had things been
handled differently by Miss Tagg, Cleveleys Post Office would still be open,
Mrs Wolstenholme would still be the Sub Postmistress, 7 staff would still have

their jobs, and the community of Cleveleys would still have their ideally
situated Post Office.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true

3S

POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219
POL00118219

Jc Soarenuen 7 OF PNR Aurbouy SAcKSon,

o/h 4 Say FL Ae kk0t0 & I

8 APING REEV Qo Sug -Borussrmse Ao” NEARLY 2S YEARS.

(NN HAS Fens 4S NAN BE

«

AV PNNORLUIER SOPH QD ARSE CO

Way CRSPAASTERL AN LS Eryn VETROTK HIV YSERL

‘N THE FAS> S 48 RBKE Fo

AYScKS Ee AWMORKEUMS PVD MHKY

ERE PReaaysS Soeren O47, MMEv AxouG@ Cane AWVSS FASE

Moyo “NI Hy SrArovy SAS ONLY WOEREESTEN ZH PROMOTING

Ge coun SHR APT FHS Sk PROSE
Sonny

OF Sug ~ “BC masrErs .
OE VAD BE MROBLEM SHE cocucn SFY SHE Cocuxn Soer
(7 C47, Bar VEVER BID. SHE 2045 MHE WWEHr ASL KED
RETAIL NErRORK MINA ZER ov PVE RBincerooe. FRET, WA
TAY SUG > POST UASHER. OVEN Hy BaKweee IL MEN CUER Sy
vay OFEFY TER DL seq Sone wvtrrvcav -CHneoy MSALZE Fook F
EWRSORAL WSK Fe WER, Sve PHP OLRS AY my AA FER <o“4s
SERPS PEN ST AUR TYE Can me Basvesc Succseewuircy
foe S248 enw Aeran49 Ang <49>6R cover % wr 4

oN AMER CSS 755°) LerreR Ex rncqneug ery SVE HI

L ASPANDEX Uy 04 Kfo rE SAVE roan <o4e row <4S  oarcry 4

AVA PReoXx OF 2v RECENBZER Roce SHE Sod Ws 7 Comet
fe Conrurce <ogs CStremenw, 5 ALL WE Pxcacsns ) cons“

SKeaka Anus Qe oEvev Fe MW CFGP7TER., Mer ev YER

+ LEP THER SHE SPH PTT ON OVE TIBSEUCE fous Son rurer
K°GS rwERE 4S wo Eu pence OFF Comeurce PROSE G .
Hs AAS eaQWeusry APRA PYIS Wan ede, SVR PYEV Coens
nN Fe Smarme rrr ty ASAE TER COTS WOT CAP ABiez OF
PRA ING PE ORAL BOT Bw aeues Sows ar SHR OAS
“EN AER Koca eg HP. ROME Fo MHA FOOLS OLS Ce MrKY
Buen key NER, Sty Saeed y JASY SIKKS OSES MAA
Nar Rsredersay MHS Coven Ew 0eved Crown o7macsesSe
PUSS THEG VAS CAUSE “KY QTIEPYRER FTO <OSe VER Afeuse,
YER Basrsese AVO Nome Cneeermanrey VER Keeurdrerl.
ASS FHGG 48 TYR mosr> Wangrcrue PeeSond 47 “HAVE
EVER AVEr, CHE BAS KE Comrmvucedy Fo ColbeR YR
RACK. SHE YAS CUWNKQ Bo PHRHEOKY Goon Buses
Reece OF MER CVARIVTY Fo NMAVLAGFE Av ca@vs0u'

PROBLEM. Phe URN CK 4S PYRE Fo SEE. 34s}
POL00118219
POL00118219

) r

. {
yl SesveE Ven Dews VER Fon

Soouxny, SAVE Qo ger F Sonvurecne xX errrs 2 Fea Gye?

in)

conrReac ry SAV

Pye SYSTEM, Sar SAE PREXERED Fo Back VER ow-*
ON nae 4EVAEY FeO wu Shy MER KA 04EQSE On PVE
Sy sren S245 COonmecercdey “VRAVEQUIATA

CHEN 2 Wes CRKL SRen “~evererewy Comrurene’d ov 4
SEANESAGY ZVENNG Says SHE Sysrenc “as
Comenysrehy CRRA ANA A Btence= Cavnor <=
PRBTVNEDR, Sarrey c4= 40R Go Wore BNAT ARE Kew
S4rnpesey Fo Bo HWE Sediororn¢ aay, Starrctyy ON An»
RRRRY OV RK BeeoRE CR Here SAws/ By LevERr Zo
MANGAL BILAN ENG rye THE ARORKAML VS SORTER OC 7
OWS CR PAE ONLY PING MM OQAGESTER ALD, AVA 777
SAMAR SILL REV ME SUG~ POST*HITGR 7% cacnia S40 :
Dens MWe SAX, Fo Peerw4Ars eK Cowretcr Ao

FAVE 7S A Concedes FRAVESTY OC Wuserce

Sraeauev>~ of FRATAS

4 REVEVE OWE AyerS Sra SV PWS rrr ees

STATENS ARE ewe

Q4rKB0, FR Voy. R008

POL00118219
POL00118219

AmenpeD STATEMENT OF JULIE WOLSTENHOLME

J will say as follows:

1. My earliest recollections of a Post Office were when I was about 8 years ald
when my mother and father used to run the North Shore Post Office in
Blackpool. We then moved to Haslingden and they ran a Post Office there for
about ten years until they returned to Cleveleys in about 1990.

2. When left school at 16 years I tried my hand at several things until I was 18.
I then went to work for my father in the Post Office. That was at first in
Haslingden and then I moved to Clevevleys and worked in Cleveleys Post Office.
My father then bought this business at rented premises at 19 Crescent West
Cleveleys. I worked there for about 6 years, then my father decided to
purchase a building, adapt it to Post Office specifications and Cleveleys Post
Office was moved round the corner to 2 Runnymede Ave Cleveleys. During the
time I had my three I still managed to work part-time, until my father

had to resign due to ‘My ex-partner and myself decided to purchase
the premises and business from my parents.

3. The business and premises were put on the market at £186,000.
We came to a compromise and purchased it from them at the reduced price of
£150,000. We got finance from the Yorkshire Bank. They agreed to lend us
£100,000. That left £50,000, borrowed from my parents to be paid back at
£5,000 per year for 10 years. We knew at the time that the basic income from
the Post Office would produce, for the two of us before tax, a profit of about
£75,000. This was enough for us to pay staff, make the payments to the bank
and my parents, and have enough left to live on.

4. I knew how the Post Office was run and I knew the methods that
had been used in it for many years. However my parents helped considerably
over the first couple of months. This helped for a smooth transition. Training
was offered by the Post Office but only half a days training took place.

5. About 3 months after taking over the business I received notice
from the Post Office that the new computer system - Horizon being installed
into every Post Office in the country was being put into my office. This was
done at no cost to us, there was no choice about having the system, and we had
to have it. Everybody in the office was sent for training so as to use the new
system. My ex-partner and myself received one and a half days training and all
other staff had one day training. When we actually converted over to the
computerised system a Support Officer from Horizon stayed to help for 2 days
and then we were left on our own. Almost from the beginning things started to
go wrong. We had countless problems with the system. These would included the
system crashing up to 5 times a day, the main base unit being swapped out
countless times, ghost transactions. happening and more importantly, excessive
miss-balances. The system would alter, swap or delete figures of its own accord.
We were always onto the Horizon hefp desk team. They sometimes were helpful
but often they gave us something to try and when we tried it and it did not

359
POL00118219
POL00118219

work we phoned again and would get a different person who would fell us
something completely different. Eventually when the Horizon help desk could
not help us, Horizon themselves began to admit that there were software and

hardware problems with the system. They knew that our system was not
operating correctly.

Iam not saying that all the problems have lasted all the time.

Some of the problems were solved but certainly not all of them. From time to
time we checked with other Post Offices, particularly the main Post Office in
Blackpool. We found that we were operating the system the same way that they
were and therefore we were not at fault. We did, however, change our own
systems that had been used for many years to try and put in further fail-safe
improvements. For instance, we made every person in the of fice responsible for
their own stock. This was to try and identify some of the problems. It did not
really help, although it caused an awful lot more work. We also installed CCTV
cameras to check up on the staff but that did not bring forward any solutions.
There were major problems with the system and there were still no answers. As
far as the Post Office is concerned they were always right and it is always
somebody else's fault. The problems went on for 10 months, and seemingly,
according to the Post Office we were about £13,000 in debt. We knew that we
had not had it, nor the staff and we knew the system was at fault but as far as
the Post Office was concerned it was down to us.

The final straw came on the 29 November 2000 when we were

unable to balance our of fice because of problems with the system. We asked
for help from the Horizon help desk and they told us we were still having major
software problems, the stock units were beyond redemption and under their
instructions we were told it would be impossible to balance. As a last resort we
decided we could no longer work with the computers and we would revert back
to the old manual way of operating our office until the system was deemed
100% fully operational. On the 30™ November we opened the office as usual but
did not turn on the computers. This resulted in our Retail Network Manager,
Elaine Tagg, phoning us. She asked for an explanation. We told her that until
the problems with the computers were sorted out we would refuse to use them.
She said right, and explained she would be down before 10.00am with a letter
of suspension. She arrived and handed me a letter of suspension (see letter no
1). She also handed me a second letter (see letter no 2) that referred toa
letter written to me on the 20™ November 2000 (see letter no 3). The basic.
content of the letter dated 20" November 2000 is not right. She particularly
Says at paragraph 4 that a full health check was given to our system in week 4.
This is the second letter (see letter no 4) I had received from her stating the
system was fully operational. In actual fact I have two letters sent to me from
the Post Office (see letters 5 & 6) these are fairly self-explanatory and are
critical of the problems, even though according to Elaine Tagg during these
dates the system was “healthy”. I also managed to obtain from Horizon, their
computerised records of the number and nature of calls that were to and from
Horizon help desk. These go from 9" February 2000 when the computers went
on line to the 21 June 2000. These show the many calls that were made. (See
no 7 bundle of 71 pages). Also (see no 8) a computer print out showing the sort
of error that the computers were capable of. Unfortunately I have been unable

3160
Nw

10.

it.

to obtain the record of calls made between the ends of June 2000 to 30"
November 2000.

After Elaine Tagg had handed me the letter of suspension she

Demanded the keys to the building. Because the building was ours we would not
give them to her. She then insisted that we shut the door, get rid of all the
customers and she told all the staff to go home. She refused us permission to
touch any of the Post Office Equipment in the premises. Closing the of fice was
a major blow to the Township of Cleveleys, especially as it was approaching
Christmas. I asked Elaine Tagg on what grounds she was suspending me. I told
her that I was prepared to run the Post Office, keep it open using the
traditional methods. This would only have produced a greater amount of work
but that was nothing compared to the problems encountered with the
computers. Her response was to tell me that she did not need to give me any
grounds at the present time as to why I had been suspended. Later that day she
brought another Retail Network Manager and four auditors in. They stayed for
the rest of the day and all day Friday trying to balance the accounts. On Friday
they bagged up all the cash and stock at the office ready for Securicor to take
away the following Monday. The auditors returned on Monday, which was the 4"
December 2000. I have never been told the result of that audit, even though I
should have been allowed to check the results.

On Friday 8"" December 2000 I received a phone call froma Mr.

Asif Patel saying that he had been appointed by Elaine Tagg as the relief Post
Office Manager, and did I have any objections to him coming to see me. I said
no and I met him on the Friday. He asked for certain figures like my salary,
overheads, outgoings etc. I supplied him with whatever he wanted to know.

On the day I was closed down I asked Elaine Tagg what would to happen

the Post Office business. She referred to the fact that the Post Office would
want to try and keep the office open. I referred her to the fact that these
were my ex-partners premises and mine. She said yes, they would arrange to
rent them off us, and the normal amount they paid was equivalent to 10% of my
salary, which would have worked out at £150.00 per week. I pointed out to her
that this was nowhere near sufficient. Over the weekend, after thinking about
what Elaine Tagg had said about the rent, I decided to get some professional
advice and the following week I instructed two local surveyors. One was
Broomheads who did turn up and the other one didn't. It was Broomheads who
said the proper commercial rent should be £300.00 per week.

On the 18 December 2000 I received a second letter confirming

Mr. Asif Patel had been authorised as the temporary Sub Post-Master. I told
him of the rent that was required. We were also told to get a lease drawn up
(see no 9) Later I heard from another Post Office that they had received a
comment from Elaine Tagg that the demand of £300.00 for rent of the
premises was extortionate. I received a comment from Mr. Patel that he had
spoken to his accountant and thought the rent was quite high and was it
negotiable. I said no, not really because of the overheads, and he said that he
would go back to the Post Office because they were apparently trying to assist

Blo)

POL00118219
POL00118219
+

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

POL00118219
POL00118219

him with funding. I next heard through a local Newspaper (see no 10) that the
Post Office was advertising for premises and that mine were no longer being
considered.

After we were first closed down myself and my ex-partner

continued to run our small retail business within the premises, but unfortunately
with everybody knowing that the Post Office had closed we did not get the
custom and it cost us to stay open. So we had to close down this business,
leaving us with a lot of stack including perishables, which we were unable to sell.

Finally we received a letter dated 19 January 2001 (see no 11).

That was in response to my letter to her. This letter highlights a number of
specific complaints. In paragraph 1 it states I failed to meet the obligation to
manage the office properly and I failed to account for official cash and stock
properly. In the time that I was Sub-Postmistress I have only had good reports
of the way I ran the Office (see no 12 bundle of 8 reports). In paragraph 3 she
says that there have been a number of error notices and subsequent losses
made at the office which I failed to contact her about. She also states that I
should have notified her of any losses over £200.00. She knew of all our losses
(see no 13 bundle of 6 letters, also letter dated3/11/00, no 12). You are not
allowed to carry any losses without first seeking consent from you Retail
Network Manager. In paragraph 4 she says that she suggested I introduce
accounting records on the office action plan. She wanted me to use checking
procedures. Her suggestion was that I ran a manual accounting system alongside
the computerised system. That was just physically impossible to do because of
the extra workload. I agreed to do one or the other.

It is true that I did fail to provide details of how the losses had

incurred. I still do not know how these have been incurred, although Horizon is
well aware of our complaints. I do not accept that there is a loss in excess of
£13,000. Any error notices that had not been brought to account were ones
that I dispute. I accept that I did make a mistake with some obsolete scratch

cards, but given the conditions and pressure I as working under this was only a
small error.

I cannot understand why, when Elaine Tagg knew of all the

Problems I was having with the computer system, she even stated that she had
not experienced any other office apart from mine where all the computers ran _.
so slow, also she sent a card and a plant (see no 14) to apologise for all the
problems I was having, why was she so quick to close the of fice down. It would
have only taken 1 person, even Elaine Tagg herself to keep the Post Office open
and running and keep my 7 staff in employment. I read an article in the Sub-

Postmasters Courier (see no 15) of how another office was dealt with when they
had system problems.

After I had been closed down I found very few doors open within

Post Office where I could ask for help. I eventually approached my local
councillor (see no 16) and then my local MP- Joan Humble. She wrote to the Post
Office on my behalf and the letter received back from them was quite shocking
(see no 17 bundle of 2 letters). Even the Reply and Defence to counterclaim

Sled
POL00118219
POLO00118219

paragraph 3.3 (see no 18) sent to court claims more misinformation (see no 19).
It seems that no one higher up within the Post Office knew of the severity of
problems I had experienced. I believe Elaine Tagg was out of her depth with
the problems that had occurred and believe she behaved very irrationally in the
decisions she made. When she could have acted in the same way as the other
Post Office in letter 15.

17. Ido not accept that I have received from the Post Office a valid
Severance of he Agreement. The letter Elaine Tagg purports to give me 3
months notice dated the 19" January 2001 to expire on the 28" February 2001.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

T believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true

Dated: lo-Wo tS -

363
04th August 2003.

T ROGER JOHN HARRISON OF.
STATE AS FOLLOWS:

Re: Cleveleys Post Office

Statement regarding installation of POCL horizon system.

After several unsuccessful attempts to install horizon system, when it finally went live, we had
nothing but problems from day one.

The system continuously kept crashing, resulting in numerous base changes and constant phone
calls to horizon and POCL with the area manager continuously having to come to our office, to
try and sort out the problems with no avail, we then had one of the top people from horizon
‘Claudia Walker’ who came to try and solve the problems, this went on for months still to no
avail, resulting in major financial loss incurred by ourselves, it got to a point where horizon
actually said to us “Our computer system was up the swanny.”

This being as it was constantly swap stocks, alternating figures and crashing with nobody being
able to tell us why or how, we kept being reassured by our area manager “Elaine Tagg” that
everything would be sorted out and also horizon team “Claudia Walker.

Inevitably after several months with the same persistent problems every day we had, had enough.
It came to ahead, when we had to not balance because of the system swapping stocks and
crashing continuously, on the advise of horizon saying that our system could not balance
properly, we went back to old system which was manual balancing. We opened on Thursday
morning as a manual office, At approximately 09:15 hours I had a telephone call from Elaine
Tagg asking if we were refusing to use the computers, which Replied “We can not they are not
functioning properly” she then replied “I am coming down to close the post office”

Elaine Tagg appeared at approximately 09:45 and closed the post office.

STATEMENT OF TRUTH

I believe the facts stated in this witness statement are true

ee GRO

Dated? /2.//. 202

36y

POL00118219
POLO00118219
‘

POL00118219
POLO00118219

, CPR35 Statement and CV

I confirm that I have made clear in my report those facts that are within my own knowledge
and which I believe to be true, and that the opinions I have expressed represent my true and
complete professional opinion.

I have no known connection with any of the parties, witnesses or advisers involved in this
case.

Under the requirements of the Civil Procedure Rules 1999, as amended in January 2002 I
confirm that I fully understand my duty to the court and I have complied and will continue to
comply with that duty.

My business address is:

Best Practice Group PLC

106 Baker St

London

Wi1U 6TW

Law Society 2003 Accredited Expert Witness No. 229.

I am a troubleshooting specialist in computer system procurement, implementation, design,
infrastructure, hardware configuration and software development. My experience over the last
15 years is as follows: -

Hardware/infrastructure/operating systems:
Novell;

Windows NT, 3x, 95, 98, 2000,2003, ME, XP;
Unix (most variants), Solaris, Xenix, AIX, VMS;

IBM AS400, RS6000, Sun, Amdahl, DEC (now Compaq), Hewlett Packard and most PC based
equipment;

3COM, Cisco, Aircom;

Ethernet, Token Ring, SNA, CATS and various Fibre Optic configurations.
Server Centric Computing

Internet communications, MPLS, VoIP and VPN

Software development:

Languages - Dataflex, Powerflex, Oracle Forms, Delphi (Pascal), Visual Basic, Foxpro, Dbase,
Access, Informix and Progress;

Databases - Oracle, Informix, Sybase, Sequel, Dbase, Powerflex and Dataflex.

Application Systems design in Manufacturing, Distribution, Mail Order, CRM and Point of sale.
My experience spans the management of around 400 core business installations, of which
approximately 170 were described as failing prior to my engagement. My instructions are often
to provide advice to steer projects to completion

. ‘

36S Best Practice Group PLC @

POL00118219
POL00118219

Opinion
In Summary:-

From a computer system installation perspective it is my opinion that the technology installed
at the Cleveleys sub-post office was clearly defective in elements of its hardware, software or
interfaces. The majority of the errors as noted in the fault logs could not be attributed to being
of Mrs Wolstenholme’s making or operation of the system.

The helpdesk operated by the Post Office would seem to be more focused on ‘closing calls’
than attempting to get to the bottom of the continual recurrence. The instruction to ‘re-boot’
would allow a call to be closed as the postmaster could continue to work once the system had
powered back up.

Without further examination, it is unclear whether the reduction of calls logged between July
and late October 2000 is attributable to a period of comparative system stability or merely
user disillusionment with the helpdesk. What is more clear is that from late October
recurrences of faults, which had been the subject of earlier logged calls, are reported once
again along with worrying ‘discrepancies’ in audits. This may, or may not be to do with an
‘upgrade’ of the counters which seems to have occurred on or around the 23 November 2000,
or may simply be an unconnected recurrence of the earlier faults.

Jason Coyne

20 January 2004

Set Best Practice Group PLC ©

POL00118219
POLO00118219

Opinion

The types of faults, as reported in the faults logs were:-

“System Freezing” which is most probably due to either the hardware or interfaces crashing; or
alternatively fully saturated communication lines.

“System Halts displaying...” or “Blue Screen” which are almost certainly hardware faults.

It seems that each time that the system halted, the screen would display an error code. From
this error code, it would have been possible for the helpdesk operatives to establish the detail
of these hardware faults. However, it seems that this type of analysis was not undertaken by
the helpdesk with a simple re-boot being the preferred method of dealing with the issue.

That said, on a number of occasions, certain elements of counter equipment were indeed

exchanged but without any real improvement in the situation until around the end of June
2000.

The number of fault logs reduces after the end of June 2000, this could be due to the system
faults reducing in frequency i.e. being fixed, or simply that Mrs Wolstenholme tired of the
support department telling her to reboot the system (an activity which she could do herself). I
have no information to form an opinion either way.

It is interesting and certainly warrants further examination that in November 2000 the ‘system
freezing’ is reported again with the support operator stating: “They all freeze, but if it gets bad
give us a call and we will investigate” [11084054 dated 8 November 2000]

From the 31* of October (starting at call log number 10253234) there seems to be a number
of logs which talk of ‘large discrepancies’ in stock figures, trial balances with “all sorts of
figures showing minus figures” [Call Log 10311359].

Referenced in call log 11012223 there is a comment noted by the support operative that the
“pm advised that this is an intermittent problem occurring since the counters were upgraded
on 23.10”. Although the documents do not list an upgrade taking place, it does seem that
these “large” reported discrepancies occur very frequently and shortly after this noted
upgrade. Again this should be investigated further as another six system errors were noted in
November which seem to be a resurgence of the earlier, pre-July type errors.

Soe

Best Practice Group PLC &

Nw

POL00118219
POL00118219

Opinion
Re: Post Office Counters Ltd. -v- Mrs Julie Wolstenholme: Claim Number CR101947

I have been contacted by Weightman Vizards a law firm representing ‘Post Office Counters
LTD’ and Mrs Julie Wolstenholme, an individual, and requested to make initial observations
that would be of value to the court in the matter of “Post Office Counters Ltd -v- Mrs Julie
Wolstenholme” in the Blackpool County Court, Claim number CR101947.

My initial opinion, prior to examination of call logs provided, was that it would be difficult to
establish if the level and type of support calls made by Mrs Wolstenholme were ‘reasonable’ or
otherwise without having access to levels and type of support calls made by a comparable post
office branch. It was explained to me that this direct comparison was not possible, due to such
logs not being available and as a consequence I have been instructed to conduct a more
detailed review of the material already available.

In light of the above I do not consider that I am required at this stage to produce a full expert
witness report as such, and have therefore set out my initial opinions in the format below.

This more detailed examination focused on the following documents provided to me:-

Claim form dated 19 April 2001 and amended Particulars of Claim dated 17 February 2003.
Amended Defence and Counterclaim dated 14 April 2003

Reply and Defence to Counterclaim

Order dated 6 October 2003

Claimant's List of Documents

Defendant's List of Documents

Claimant's witness statement

Defendant’s witness statement

Additional set of call logs disclosed by the Claimant to the Defendant.

My observations considering the documents are as follows:

The statement from Ms Elaine Tagg, the retail network manager of the Post Office Ltd, at para
11 stated that:

“Mrs Wolstenholme persisted in telephoning the Horizon System Help Desk in relation to
any problems which she had with the system generally, these problems related to the

use and general operation of the system and were not technical problems relating to
the system.”

This, in my opinion is not a true representation on the evidence that I have had access to. Of
the 90 or so fault logs that I have reviewed, 63 of these are without doubt system related
failures. Only 13 could be considered as Mrs Wolstenholme calling the wrong support help desk
requesting answers to “How do I ..?” type training questions.

The majority of the system issues were screen locks, freezes, and blue screen errors which are
clearly not a fault of Mrs Wolstenholme’s making, but most probably due to faulty computer
hardware software, interfaces or power. In fact, on a detailed view of call 11021413, dated 2
November 2000, Ms Tagg may have witnessed first hand the style of system problems that
Mrs Wolstenholme experienced in her operation of the system. This fault log notes that:
“Elaine reports that one of the counters has a blue screen with the message STOP 0x000000a”
and was advised by the operator to “reboot”.

Although not uncommon in my experience of support helpdesk’s, I find it disconcerting that
the helpdesk’s first line support consistently advised Mrs Wolstenholme to “reboot” the system
(ie. switch the equipment off and back on again), without trying to understand the cause of the
error. It can be noted that a re-boot was advised in 47 out of the 63 occasions where system
errors were logged. This instruction treats the effect and not the cause, leaving the actual fault
which caused the error intact, and with it a recurrence seems inevitable.

36S Best Practice Group PLC Sf

