POL00057267
POL00057267

Royal Mail Group
CONFIDENTIAL
Witness Statement

Criminal Justice Act 1967, Section 9: Magistrates Court Act 1980, sub section, 5A(3)(a) and 5B; Criminal Procedure Rules 2005, Rule 27.1

Statement of: Graham Brander

Age if under 18: Over 18 (if over 18 insert ‘over 18’)

This statement (consisting of 7 pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and
I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence. I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it
anything which I know to be false or do not believe true.

Dated the 25 day of ___November 2011

Iam the person named above and I am employed by Post Office Ltd, part of the Royal Mail Group

Plc, as an Investigator based in Eastleigh, near Southampton. I have worked for Post Office Ltd since
1984 and have spent the last ten years as an Investigator. Part of my responsibilities is to

investigate suspected criminal offences against our business and its clients.

Post Office Ltd has some 11,500 branches throughout the country and each of these operates a
computerised accounting system, which is commonly known as Horizon. Each counter position
comprises of the following Horizon equipment; a computer terminal, a visual display unit, a
keyboard, a barcode scanner and a printer. In some offices there may be a further set of Horizon

equipment in what is known as the Back Office.

The Post Office Ltd accounting system requires each of its branches to produce monthly Branch
Trading Statements. A Branch Trading Statement would be produced at the end of each Trading
Period (TP). Each TP comprises of either four or five weeks, with a week being all business
transacted from Thursday morning to close of business on the Wednesday. Each branch has the
option to perform a weekly balance within each TP, which are referred to as Balance Periods. The
Branch Trading Statement should be a true account of all cash and stock on hand and represent all

transactions conducted in that period.

Each operator at a branch should have a unique log on code, which is normally made up of the first

Signatur, G RO Signature witnessed by

S011 (Side A.

Version 8 Jan 10
