POL00039089
POL00039089

OPERATING LEVEL AGREEMENT

“FINAL”

Product & Branch Accounting, Network
and Service Delivery.

Author : Marie Cockett

Version : 1.0 FINAL

Page 1
0. Document Control

0.1 Document History

POL00039089
POL00039089

Versio I Date Reason

n

0.1 12/11/20 IInitial draft
08

0.2 19/11/20 IReview by Lead Team & Andy Winn
08

0.3 27/11/20 IReview by P&BA managers
08

0.4 27/11/20 IReview by Tracy Mather
08

0.5 27/11/20 IDeliverables added from Andrew Thompson &
08 John Breedon

0.6 13/01/20 IUpdated following conformance workshop on
09 4=2 Dec 2009

0.7 15/01/20 IUpdated following review with Rod Ismay,
09 Martin Box and Andy Winn.

0.8 03/02/20

Updated following review by Martin Box,

09 Andy Winn, Alison Bolsover & Phil Ashley
and meeting with Rod Ismay and Peter
Corbett
0.9 20/02/20 IReview by Kay Wilson
09

0.10 27/02/20

09

updated.

Executive summary added. Settle Centrally,
disputes and Debt recovery sections

0.11 06/03/20

09

Updated following review by Rod Ismay &
Andy Winn. Also Losses section added and
write off appendix.

1.0 28/03/20

09

Updated following review by Martin Box,
John Breedon and outcome from review
meeting 26° March

0.2 Approval Authorities

Name Area Signature Date
Product & Branch

Rod Ismay Accounting

Lynn Hobbs I Network

Page 2
POL00039089
POL00039089

Mark Weaver I Service Delivery

Page 3
POL00039089
POL00039089

0.3 Abbreviations

Deriniercn
A&L Alliance a Leicester
AP Automated Payments
EDS Electronic Data System
EFC Electronic Filing Cabinet
NS&I National Savings & Investments
OLA Operating Level Agreement
P&BA Product & Branch Accounting
Rems Remittances
TC Transaction Correction
CONTENTS
G. Document Control ..

C.1 Document Histo:

0.2. Approval Authorities .

0.3. Abbreviations......

Executive Summary :
Purpose . :
Rationale for OLA..
Mutual Responsibilities
Profit & Loss consequence .
Dependencies

Introduction & Purpose.

Operating Level Agreement
Transaction Corrections issued by P&BA beceeeee :
Cheques to EDS (processing centre), Cash Rems & Unpaid Cheques.....
Bureau Rems, Camelot, DVLA, Government Services, Paystation, Postal

S, Suspense, Quantum &
Vouchers

3. Saving Stamps. :
3. Fraudulent Cash Cheques......ss.sscsssseeee : :
3. Client related errors —- A&L, ATMs (all types), vate pre-order &
travellers cheques, Moneygram, NSé&?,
Personal Banking underpayments & Travel insurance
3.1.6 Debit Cards... lie ee ieee ccaeeccceeeteeees .
3.1.7 Automated Payments underpayments............005
3.1.8 tock Transaction Corrections..........seeeeeee see
3.1.9 Automated Payment Overpayments and Personai Banking Overpayments...
3.1. Aged / Large volume / value Transaction Correc
3.1. Acceptance of Transaction Corrections ...
3.1. Timescales - a quick reference guide
3.2 Enquiries between Branches and P&BA (could be vi
Support Admin Team......ssseecceceeecceeeeces
3.2. Enquiries from Branches to P&BA be via NBSC helpline) or Network
Support Admin Team . . . . . . 1

w

w2.2 Enquiries from P&BA to Branches.

Settle Cen y
Dispute Process

POL00039089
POL00039089

Transaction Corrections
Transaction Corrections where there
to Branch Trading roll over...
Branch Disczepancies tee

Disputes Appeals.
Debt Recovery Process ..

investigate

2] WFD Jus]
pad bea tra bay
Don E-]oy Oy
foal a
whoo [tale

w

3.7.1 Debt Recovery timescales be ceeeeeeeeeee

3.7.2 deductions from Remuneration to Settle Outstanding Debt.....ssssssseee el
3.8 Losses and Write OffS cs. seeeccc eee cccceetetteeeeeeteee seeeeceel
3.9 Network Conduct Cases, Appeals and investigations ....... evens
3.10 Measurement..... :
3.11 Conformance § NBSC Help:

3.11.1 Monthly Reporting

3.11 Knowledge Base

3.11.3_

3.11.4

3.11.5

Product & Branch Accounting
212.2 NBSC heipline
3.13 Review & day to da
3.13.1 Quarterly review
P&BA Contacts ..

Relationship

Day to Day Contacts
Dependencies

WOCOCOLOBIGIIIVIAAAADAGVUDHWWWWN

4.1 National Federation of Subpostmast
4.2 Clients & Joint Venture Partners...
4.3 Suppliers :
4.4 Cash, Bureau & Stock.

5. Appendices ..... ee eeee

Page 5
POL00039089
POL00039089

1. Executive Summary

1.1 Purpose

To improve conformance and cut losses via agreed roles and
responsibilities, standards and measures for Transaction
Corrections, debt recovery, enquiries and conformance
between P&BA, branches and Service Delivery. It will
commence 18* April 2009 and will be reviewed annually as a
minimum.

1.2 Rationale for OLA

1.Preventing losses - stopping recurrence by timely and
clear notification to the right parties and pro-active
intervention.

2.Improving debt recovery - better chance of recovery when
you identify it earlier

3.Owning and managing budgets —- budget holders will feel
more control and opportunity to act

4.Clarifying standards for P&BA staff —- to improve
responses through pace and narration

1.3 Mutual Responsibilities

> P&BA will provide timely and informative notice of the
issue.

> Network will take prompt and constructive corrective
action and ensure branches respond accordingly.

> Service Delivery will ensure that the NBSC are equipped
to support this OLA.

> All parties shall work to learn from past issues to
prevent future recurrence.

> 95% of individual errors and issues will be reported
within 3 months of the date of the transaction, where
it is within P&BA’s control to do so.

1.4 Profit & Loss consequence
> If timescale met, default is for all losses / write
offs to be charged to Network and to Product budgets
> If timescales not met, default is to charge to P&BA
budgets
> In the event of dispute, and only as last resort,
Finance Analysis to mediate on whose budget

1.5 Dependencies

Product & Branch Accounting will work with clients and
suppliers to improve the timeliness of their data to Post
Office Ltd to enable further improvement to the timescales
for issuing of Transaction corrections. This is also subject

Page 6
POL00039089
POL00039089

to the authorisation of business cases to employ agency
resource within Product & Branch Accounting. Impacts of
changes, including Network Efficiency Programme, Back Office
Efficiency Programme, HNGX and POLSAP need to be fully
understood.

2. Introduction & Purpose

2.1 Overview

This Operating Level Agreement is between Product & Branch
Accounting, Network and Service Delivery. It covers all
branch types, but some sections are specifically for Agency
Branches and need to be expanded to cover the Crown branches
and Multiple Partners.

The agreement is for the interaction with Post Office
Branches, with regards to Transaction Corrections, Debt
recovery, response to queries and branch conformance.

Product & Branch Accounting, Network and Service Delivery
will use reasonable endeavours to ensure that the timescales
highlighted in the operating level agreement are met.

2.2 Timescales
The commencement date for the OLA is the 1%* April 2009.

It will be reviewed at the quarterly Network Relationship
meeting for the first year and then as a minimum annually.

3. Operating Level Agreement

3.1 Transaction Corrections issued by P&BA

The following section sets out the standard timescales for
the issuing of Transaction Corrections to Branches, by
Product & Branch Accounting.

Note: If there is a fraud investigation at any branch, this

could delay the Transaction Corrections being issued. This
means the timescales detailed above are unlikely to be met.

Page 7
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.1.1 Cheques to EDS (processing centre), Cash Rems_ &
Unpaid Cheques

95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 1
month of the transaction date, with the exception of
missing cheques, this allows for late despatch /
delivery.

In the case of missing cheques, on occasions these need
to be queried with the Client or Customer. In these cases
the Branch will be contacted within 3 months, to be aware
of the potential issue and its value, and for the branch
to provide the relevant information. 95% of these
Transaction Corrections will be issued within 6 months.

3.1.2 Bureau Rems, Camelot, DVLA, Government Services,
Paystation, Postal Orders, Suspense, Quantum & Vouchers
These areas are matched over a Branch Trading period and
therefore 95% of the Transaction Corrections will be
issued within 2 months of the transaction date.

3.1.3 Saving Stamps

To allow for the checking and any investigation, 95% of
the Saving Stamps Transaction Corrections will be issued
within 3 months of the transaction date.

3.1.4 Fraudulent Cash Cheques
These are alerted to Product & Branch Accounting by the
Alliance & Leicester, following their checks and
investigations. 95% of Transaction Corrections will be
issued within 4 months of the transaction date.

3.1.5 Client related errors — A&L, ATMs (all types), First
rate pre-order & travellers cheques, Moneygram, NS&I,
Personal Banking underpayments & Travel insurance

If a difference needs to be queried with a Client then
the Branch will be contacted within 3 months, to be
aware of the potential issue and its value, and for the
branch to provide the relevant information. The issue
will then be queried with the Client. 95% of Transaction
Corrections will be issued within 6 months.

3.1.6 Debit Cards

This is dependant on when we receive the chargeback from
the bank, following their checks. 95% of Transaction
Corrections will be issued within 6 months of the
transaction date.

Page 8
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.1.7 Automated Payments underpayments

95% of Transaction Corrections will be issued within 1
month of the enquiry being received by P&BA.

3.1.8 Stock Transaction Corrections

Branches must report a stock surplus or shortage to the
NBSC helpline and follow the standard process. 95% of
the Transaction Corrections will be issued within 3
months of the date the surplus or shortage is reported.
If a Branch does not follow this process for shortages
then the Transaction Correction will not be issued. The
same applies to any expected Transaction Corrections for
incorrect stock adjustments.

3.1.9 Automated Payment Overpayments and Personal Banking
Overpayments
These have to be queried with the Client and Customer. A
Transaction Correction will only be issued if the Client

and Customer agree. 95% of these will be issued within 2
years.

3.1.10 Aged / Large volume / value Transaction Corrections

Product & Branch Accounting will ensure that significant
or widespread issues with regard to aged, high volume,
high value will be communicated to the Network and
Service Delivery in advance of the Transaction
Corrections being issued.
>» Aged - If Transaction Corrections are to be issued
outside the timescales set out in this document and
it affects more than 10% of the Network, the Product
& Branch Accounting relationship manager will
contact Network Co-ordination Team in advance of
them being issued. This team will then work with the
rest of Network line management, including the PO
Ltd NFSP Liaison Manager to understand what
communication support and action is required.

> High Volume - If the volume of Transaction
Corrections for an individual product is 25% more
than usual volumes, the Product & Branch Accounting
relationship manager will contact Network Co-
ordination in advance of them being issued.

> High Value - If the value of a Transaction
Correction is more than £10,000, Product & Branch
Accounting or Cash Services will have a conversation
with the branch involved and the Network, in advance
of issue, unless one of the following applies:

Page 9
POL00039089
POL00039089

a) A compensating Transaction Correction is issued at
the same time.

b) The amount can be seen in suspense.

c)A compensating Transaction Correction or branch
discrepancy has been accepted previously.

d) Evidence has been sent to the branch in advance of
transaction correction.

3.1.11 Acceptance of Transaction Corrections

Branches will ensure that all Transaction Corrections
are accepted within their Branch Trading period. It is
recommended that they are looked at / investigated
within 1 week of receipt. Refer to section 3.6 for any
disputes and if this affects Branch Trading. P&BA will
not issue aged / high volume / high value Transaction
Corrections on the Monday / Tuesday prior to Branch
Trading, without prior branch agreement. If a
Transaction Correction does arrive on Branch Trading
day, the branch has to action it before they can roll
their branch trading period. The branch however, can
still dispute in line with section 3.6.

If a branch receives compensating Transaction
Corrections, they must settle these both in the same
way, either both make good or both settle centrally.

Page 10
3.1.12 Timescales - a quick reference guide

POL00039089
POL00039089

Transaction Correction Expected first Expected
Type contact with Timescale for
Branch issue of TC

Alliance & Leicester Within 3 Within 6 months
months

ATMs (All types) Within 3 Within 6 months
months

Automated Payment Within 1 month IWithin 2 years

overpayments

Automated Payment Within 1 month IWithin 1 month

underpayments

Bureau rems Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Camelot Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Cash remittance Within 1 month IWithin 1 month

Cheques to EDS Within 1 month I Within 1 month

(processing centre)

Cheques to EDS - Missing IWithin 3 Within 6 months
months

Debit Cards chargebacks Within 6 Within 6 months
months

DVLA Within 2 Within 2 months
months

First Rate pre-order Within 3 Within 6 months
months

First Rate travellers Within 3 Within 6 months

cheques months

Fraudulent Cash Cheques Within 4 Within 4 months
months

Government Services Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Moneygram Within 3 Within 6 months
months

National Savings & Within 3 Within 6 months

Investments months

Paystation Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Personal Banking Within 1 month IWithin 2 years

overpayments

Personal Banking Within 3 Within 6 months

underpayments months

Postal Orders Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Quantum Within 2 Within 2 months
months

Page 11
POL00039089

POL00039089

Saving Stamps Within Within months
months

Stock Within Within months
months

Suspense Within Within months
months

Travel Insurance Within Within months
months

Unpaid Cheques Within month I Within month

Vouchers Within Within months
months

Note: Fraud Investigations are likely to delay any of

these timescales

Page 12
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.2 Enquiries between Branches and P&BA (could be via NBSC
helpline) or Network Support Admin Team

The following section sets out the normal timescales for the
response to enquiries to / from Branches and/or customer, by
Product & Branch Accounting.

3.2.1 Enquiries from Branches to P&BA (could be via NBSC
helpline) or Network Support Admin Team
3.2.1.1 Underpayment of a Transaction
P&BA will respond to the branch and issue a Transaction
Correction within 1 month of the enquiry being received
in P&BA.

3.2.1.2 Overpayment of a Transaction
P&BA will follow up with the Client / Customer on behalf
of the Branch, but these could take up to 2 years to
resolve (it could be a customer only has an annual
statement and does not check them) and are dependant on
the Client / Customers agreement. If the Client /
Customer does not agree then the branch will be held
liable and payment will be requested.

3.2.1.3 Telephone Enquiries from Branches
P&BA will respond to all telephone enquiries, within 2
working days of receipt in P&BA, this may be an update
on the query or a resolution. This could be 6 working
days from the original enquiry if the enquiry has been
through NBSC and / or Network Support Admin Team.

3.2.1.4 Transaction Correction enquiries
The number to contact for Transaction Correction queries
will be included on the relevant Transaction Correction.
This will be someone in Product and Branch Accounting or
the NBSC helpline number, who will be able to assist.
NBSC and P&BA will respond to all telephone enquiries,
within 2 working days, this may be an update on the
query or a resolution.

3.2.2 Enquiries from P&BA to Branches

P&BA will at times ask Branches to provide information
to assist in the investigation process, e.g. a cheque
listing. The branch will provide these within 1 week.

Page 13
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.3 Branch Trading

Branches will complete their Branch Trading on the stated
date for their Branch Trading Group. In exceptional
circumstances this can be completed on the following day.
Consequences of branch not completing their Branch Trading
on time may mean that the data is archived. If this is the
case, the branch may be held liable for any costs incurred
in restoring this.

If there is any problem in completing Branch Trading,

3.4 Branch Discrepancies

On Completion of Branch Trading, Branches may have a Branch
Discrepancy;

3.4.1 Definition

When Branch Trading is completed Horizon will calculate the
expected cash position, using the transactions completed
through Horizon. The Branch will then count the actual cash
in the branch and declare this. A branch discrepancy is
where there is a difference between these two values, either
a cash shortage or surplus.

3.4.2 Investigation

It is the responsibility of the branch to investigate and
understand the cause of this di e Branch may
then contact the NBSC helpline and advise that
a Transaction Correction is expected. This needs to be
specific to include the product / transaction type, date and
value.

NBSC helpline will then report these to the relevant team in
Product & Branch Accounting for action.

3.5 Settle Centrally

Meaning — choosing the option to “Accept and Settle
Centrally” signifies acceptance of a loss or gain within a
branch unless the dispute process is instigated. “Settle
Centrally” does not prohibit further investigation which
might offset all or part of the loss/gain accepted earlier,
but this is a branch’s responsibility to initiate.

The Settle Centrally process adjusts the system derived cash
position to align to the declared total of cash, foreign
currency, cheques and value stock within the branch. The
shortage or surplus “settled centrally” is transferred to a
sub-postmaster’s “Customer Account”.

Page 14
POL00039089
POL00039089

The Customer Account is managed by Post Office Ltd, Product
& Branch Accounting. Outstanding amounts are resolved
through the debt recovery process

Page 15
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.6 Dispute Process

Post Office Ltd acknowledges the potential financial impact
and stress that may be caused by unexpected Transaction
Corrections or Branch Discrepancies. An effective dispute
process is essential to ensure that settled centrally debts
are not recovered from sub-postmasters without reasonable
time to investigate, challenge and resolve individual
amounts.

There are two routes by which sub-postmasters might
instigate the dispute process: -

3.6.1Transaction Corrections

3.

6.

> Branches should contact the Transaction Correction
issuer within 7 days of acceptance at branch to
challenge the evidence provided to support the
Transaction Correction. NB Where time permits prior
to Branch Trading, branches should challenge prior to
acceptance.
If the challenge is accepted in full or part at this
stage, a compensating Transaction Correction will be
issued to close the dispute.
>» On receipt of supporting information the issuing team
will suspend the debt recovery process, if the
Transaction Correction was settled centrally, until a
response has been made. Written submissions to the
specific team will receive a written response, within
10 working days, in line with Business standards. It
is recommended that written submissions be sent using
a priority service.

Vv

2Transaction Corrections where there is insufficient

time to investigate prior to Branch Trading roll over.

>» Branches should contact NBSC and request
further time to investigate a pporting
information. A reference number will be provided.

> Supporting information to support any dispute must
then be presented in writing via Special Delivery to
The Current Agents Accounting Team (Debt recovery), 1
Future Walk, Chesterfield S49 1PF within 7 days
quoting the above reference number.

> The Current Agents Accounting Team will then present
to the issuing team who will suspend the debt recovery
process, if the Transaction Correction was settled
centrally, until a written response has been made.

Page 16
POL00039089
POL00039089

P&BA will provide an update on the query or a
resolution, within 10 working days.

Page 17
POL00039089
POL00039089

3.6.3 Branch Discrepancies

>» The resolution of branch discrepancies is the
responsibility of the branch.
> If the subpostmaster believes a transaction correction
is required they should contact the appropriate
de. artment in Product & Branch Accounting via NBSC
Supporting information should be
presented and resolution then follows the transaction
correction process. It is recommended that this be
sent using a priority service. P&BA will provide an
update on the query or a resolution, within 10 working
days.

3.6.3Disputes Appeals

>» If the subpostmaster believes that the supporting
information provided to Product & Branch Accounting
adequately supports their dispute but the dispute has
not been allowed they should make a written submission
to: -
The Relationship Manager
1 Future Walk
Chesterfield
S49 1PF
>» The debt recovery process, if settled centrally, will
be suspended pending a written response.
> A written response will be provided, within 10 working
days, in line with Business standards.
> All correspondence will be included on the EFC for the
Network to be able to view.
Where a dispute is subsequently not upheld, a branch then
becomes liable for the settled centrally debt and no
repayment will be made for any debt made good.

3.7 Debt Recovery Process

3.7. Debt Recovery timescales

1

> Week 0 - Branch Trading

>» Week 1 - Request for Payment issued.

> Week 2 - Reminder Letter issued

> Week 4 - <£1,000 debt - recovered via next pay run
after Contract Manager sign off.

>» Week 4 - £1,000 + debt report to Contracts Manager.

> Week 4-6 - Contracts Manager agrees method of payment
for debt > £1,000.

Page 18
POL00039089
POL00039089

Recoveries or payments made through pay will be impacted
by payroll cut off timings.

3.7.2 Deductions from Remuneration to Settle Outstanding
Debt
> Deductions from remuneration should be the final option;

>

attempts to obtain payment by cheque or credit/debit
card should be made first.

Ideally only one deduction from remuneration is
permitted to be running at a time - if more than one is
exceptionally allowed this is subject to the criteria
below i.e. maximum of 12 months repayment period and 25%
maximum of remuneration overall. Where a branch has a
deduction from remuneration in place, alternative
methods of payment should be sought to settle further
outstanding debt.

Maximum time for paying by deduction from remuneration
is 12 months.

Maximum amount per month that can be enforced to be paid
by deduction from remuneration is 25% of the branch
remuneration.

Should the debt not fit within the deduction from
remuneration guidelines, i.e. amount too large, a mix of
payment methods should be considered, for example,
collect a lump sum up front by cheque or credit/debit
card and the remainder by deduction from remuneration.
Under no circumstances should a deduction from
remuneration in excess of £1,000 be set up without the
branch being contacted verbally and reasonable attempts
being made to obtain a contact number for the
Subpostmaster, if they are absent from the branch.

Losses and Write offs

If timescales have been met by Product & Branch
Accounting then default is for all losses to be charged
to Network and to Product budgets

If timescales have not been met by Product & Branch
Accounting, default is to charge to P&BA budgets

If postings originate from Horizon as in the case of
Crown office losses / gains and Transaction corrections
and retail line write off, these will automatically be
charged to the Network

If Product & Branch Accounting makes a decision on
disputes, then the default is to charge to P&BA budgets
Aged debt outside of the current financial year should
be charged to P&BA budgets.

In the event of dispute, and only as last resort,
Finance Analysis to mediate on whose budget

Page 19
POL00039089
POL00039089

> P&BA will operate the attached write off process to
ensure that all steps have been followed before write
off.

Please see Appendix A for full write off process.

3.9 Network Conduct Cases, Appeals and investigations

P&BA will provide an accurate summary of the Transaction
Corrections, issued, accepted and outstanding within 2
working days of the request being made by the Contract,
Appeals or Investigation Manager, on an office-by-office
basis.

P&BA will provide an accurate summary of outstanding debt
held in the settled centrally account for a branch within 2
working days of the request being made by the Contract,
Appeals or Investigation Manager.

P&BA will provide an accurate summary of any other debt,
that P&BA were aware of, for a branch within 2 working days
of the request being made by the Contract, Appeals or
Investigation Manager.

P&BA to provide accurate details for Branch Trading
balancing results, showing discrepancies committed on
Horizon, for a branch for the previous 12 months prior to a
given date (this may be the date of a suspension for
example) within 2 working days of the request being made by
the Contract, Appeals or Investigation Manager.

P&BA to provide the date of last Branch Trading with
response.

P&BA and Contract, Appeals or Investigation Manager will
agree a quicker timescales on a case-by-case basis for
urgent requests.

3.10 Measurement

To measure this Operating Level Agreement in its entirety
would require a lot of resource. Therefore, in the short
term, this agreement will be measured on an exceptions
basis. Any instances where the agreement has not been met
will be reported, with the relevant information, to the
following people.

Name Area Email Address
Andy Winn P & BA andrew.winnt GRO
Andrew Network andrew.J.Thompso

Thompson
Phil Ashley I Service

POL00039089
POL00039089

Delivery proses
Julia Network julia.marwood
Marwood :
Martin Network martin.hopcroft
Hoperoft I nmin enn

In the longer term simple measures and reports will be
developed to monitor the delivery of this agreement, using a
RAG status for reporting. Example to be included when
available.

3.11 Conformance & NBSC Helpline queries

3.11.1 Monthly Reporting

Product & Branch Accounting will provide a monthly
report of Transaction Corrections to the Network General
managers. P&BA will also provide a monthly worst branch
report to the Network and Network Efficiency Programme.

3.11.2 Knowledge Base

Product & Branch Accounting will provide regular updates
to ensure that the Knowledge Base scripts held at the
NBSC are up to date to deal with the incoming calls.

3.11.3 System Issues

Product & Branch Accounting will request
intervention/escalation from Service Delivery to deal
with specific issues which have not been/can not be
resolved via the usual route(s) /processes/procedures.
Such issues will include (but are not limited to)
missing, incorrect or corrupt data/files from external
suppliers/customers, failure to follow agreed
processes/procedures by external suppliers/customers,
system failures that have not been resolved via the
agreed processes or to the agreed timescales.

3.11.4 NBSC Helpline queries to P&BA

Product & Branch Accounting will respond to requests
from the NSBC helpline within 10 working days of
request.

3.11.5 Branch Non-conformance

Although the responsibility for conformance clearly sits
with the Network and Multiple Partners, Product & Branch

Page 21
POL00039089
POL00039089

Accounting and Service Delivery will work with the
Network, Crown offices and Multiple Partners to address
conformance issues.

3.12 Opening Hours

3.12.1 Product & Branch Accounting
Product & Branch Accounting will be available to take
phone calls between 8.00 am and 5.00pm, Monday to Friday
(excluding Public holidays). They can also use the email
address

GRO !and someone from
Product & Branch Accounting will call them back, within
2 working days. This email address can also be used to
arrange an out of hours call.

3.12.2 NBSC helpline

The NBSC helpline will be available on branch trading
days until 8pm on Branch Trading balancing days.

3.13 Review & day to day Relationship

3.13.1 Quarterly review
A quarterly review meeting is in place led by Marie
Cockett and attended by Andy Winn, Paul Dann, John
Breedon, Glenn Chester, Karen Arnold, Daina Wellard,
Michael Haworth, Shaun Turner, Alan Lusher and Phil
Ashley . This group, together with the relevant guests,
will review this Operating Level Agreement, quarterly
for the first year and then at least annually.

3.13.2 P&BA Contacts

> P&BA will provide details of contacts within P&BA at
regular intervals, minimum annually.

> Network will provide details of contacts within the
Network at regular intervals, minimum annually.

>» Service Delivery will provide details of contacts
within Service Delivery at regular intervals, minimum
annually.

3.13.3 Changes

> P&BA to provide details of any suggested changes to
the Network & Service Delivery, in advance of

Page 22
implementation, to
& Service Delivery
Network to provide
the P&BA & Service
implementation, to
Service Delivery

POL00039089
POL00039089

enable impact assessment by Network

details of any suggested changes to
Delivery, in advance of
enable impact assessment by P&BA &

Service Delivery to provide details of any suggested
changes to the P&BA & Network, in advance of

implementation, to
Network

enable impact assessment by P&BA &

Page 23
POL00039089

POL00039089
3.13.4 Day to Day Contacts
Name Role Area Email Telephon
e

Marie Branch Conformance & P&BA ———— “Ht
Cockett Liaison I ‘I
Andy Winn Relationship Manager P&BA ; i
Paul Dann Agents Debt accounting P&BA I
John Breedon INational Contract Manager Network i]

North i I
Glenn Contract Manager, Central Network} I
Chester H i
Karen Arnold IContract Manager, North Network} GRO

Central England t I
Cathy Multiples & Crown P&BA
Macdonald Accounting, Fraud &

conformance i”
Alison Financial Services & Bill P&BA i
Bolsover Payment i ‘I
Phil Ashley Branch IT Advisor Service

Deliver
y

Shaun Turner I Network co-ordination Network }
Alan Lusher Network co-ordination Network}
Martin Crowns Network
Hopcroft i
Julia Network co-ordination Network } I
Marwood

Page 24

POL00039089
POL00039089

4. Dependencies

In order to deliver the levels / timescales in this
agreement, the following dependencies need to be met.

4.1

National Federation of Subpostmasters

Agreement to the principles of this OLA must to be
sought from the NFSP to the timescales in this document

Clients & Joint Venture Partners

Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with Client Banks, A&L, Bank
of Ireland, Hanco, First Rate, Moneygram, NS&I, Camelot,
DVLA, Post Office Ltd Banks, Quantum and the Passport
Service to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.

Failure by our Clients to deliver the requested
information will be reported and dealt with on a case-
by-case basis.

Suppliers

Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with EDS, Steria and Fujitsu
to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.

Failure by our Suppliers to deliver the requested
information will be reported and dealt with on a case-
by-case basis.

Cash, Bureau & Stock

Timescales for data feeds, enquiries and evidence
requests must to be agreed with Cash Services, Cash
Centres, Hemel Hempstead, Swindon and Royal Mail Service
Delivery to enable the timescales in this document to be
achieved.

Failure to deliver the requested information will be
reported and dealt with on a case-by-case basis.

5. Appendices

> Appendix A - P&BA Write off Process
The P&BA write off process will be attached to this OLA
once it has been finalised.

Page 25
