POL00105490
POL00105490

Theresa Iles

Page 1 of 2

From: Alice Perkins”
Sent: 22 May 20124
To: Glenda C Hansen

Ce: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton; Alwen Lyons
‘Subject: Replies to the 2 letters below

Glenda,

Subject to any comments from Paula, please could you have these letters ready for my signature
tomorrow?

6

Letter to James Arbuthnot

Thank you very much for your appreciative letter of 21 May.

have discussed this with Paula and we agree that we should brief the MPs alone in the first instance,
jout Shoosmiths or anyone else present.

What we propose Is that the two of us should attend with Angela, who you also met last week, Our alm
‘would be to have a conversation with the MPs along the same lines as the one we had with you and
Oliver Letwin, including the proposal about the way forward which we discussed with you. We will come
to the meeting having found someone suitable to carry out the task we identified, with proposed terms
of reference and a timescale for the work.

Ifyou are happy, our offices can find a date for the meeting, Paula would also like to ring you before the
meeting to discuss the handling of it in more detail ~ we would find your guidance most helpful.

With many thanks for your help on this.

Letter to Sir Paul Beresford

‘Thank you for your letter of 15 May about Albury Post Office and shop which I have just seen,

am asking Kevin Gilliland, the Post Office’s Network Director, to look into the questions involved which
concern Royal Mail as well as Post Office Ltd, and reply to you direct, keeping me abreast of the
position.

Alice

‘AUCE PERKINS
JCA GROUP.

‘SiR Tesip nat
"floor +55 Baker Steet + London + WAU gEW

‘Tht essge contains conden norman anisntended el fr he lads ned. youare nt teamed adresse you shouldnt teat,
deo apy th eral. Please nthe sender immediatly by es youhate eeied Wi aby mite an alt ths em fam your te =
‘et vansidenconot be utente tobe secure or eror ea lonmaton cul be nerepee, erupted, aive lt or ncampte or conta se, The
‘sender theeore doesnot acept ty lor any eer eso the conten a ns mestge which ae a0 rel of ead wang eine
requ please equest ahardeapy vero,

From: Glenda C Hansen”
‘Sent: 22 May 2012 10:
To: Alice Perkins

Ce: Lisa Poppiti
Subject:

Alice,
I've attached scanned copies of 2 letters addressed to you.

One from James Arbuthnot re next steps, and a letter from Sir Paul Beresford MP re his tocal
PO —Albury Post Office and Shop Not sure if you want to respond personally, else Ill pass it
on to our ECT team for a response. .

{will hand the hard copies to you on Thursday.

Glenda Hansen
Personal Assistant to Alice Perkins —
Chairman's Office seeeeeeee
Post Office Ltd

This
email
and

Street, London,
i Postline :

any
attachrr
are
Confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT,

22/05/2012

POL00105490
POL00105490

Somer A Ne -

