POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

Mandatory Losses
& Gains Policy
Crown Office
Network

Document Control

ile Overview:

Head of Security

24 Apr 2013

Annually

1 May 2014

2: Revision History:

24 Apr 2013 st release

CONTENTS:

Apr 2013
1

POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
Section 1 Introduction
Section 2 Roles and Responsibilities
Section 3 Annual Declaration of Compliance (ADC)
Section 4 Stock Units
Section 5 Supervisory Checks (misbalance checks, surprise checks)
Section 6 Loss Management
APPENDICES:
Appendix A Roles and Responsibilities
Appendix B Annual Certificate of Compliance (ACC) — This workbook has been issued
directly to Crown Offices
Appendix C Local Record of Stock Users
Appendix D Minimum Standards for Conducting Supervisory Stock Unit Checks
Appendix E Aide Memoire for Establishing Cause of Stock Unit discrepancy
Appendix F Reporting of Losses and Gains
1 Roles and Individual roles and responsibilities are now detailed in the
Responsibilities I Policy
2 Annual The Annual Declaration of Compliance has been reinstated.
Declaration of This allows you as the BM to ensure you are aware of the
Compliance security requirements and areas specific to your Branch
requiring attention.
3 Security All Branch colleagues must attend a security related Team Talk
Education at least bi-annually. Where losses and gains cannot be

attributed to individuals, the BM should ensure addition training
support is provided.

4 Snap Checks All SUs should be subject to a managerial check every two
months. This requirement has often been overlooked therefore,
BMs are encouraged to break the check down into manageable
areas/lines rather than checking the full Cash/Stock at the
same time.

5 Conduct Code I The Escalation Process has been removed from the Policy.
The Branch Manager may consider the Conduct Code for all
balance discrepancies.

Apr 2013
2
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

Section 1 — Introduction

il. This Policy outlines business requirements relative to the management of losses and
gains within Crown Offices and incorporates criteria for checking, notifying and actions to be
taken. The aim is to reduce losses and gains whilst ensuring the needs of the business are met.
This document supersedes all previous policy documents relating to Crown Losses & Gains.

2) In terms of this policy, a loss or gain is any misbalance of a Stock Unit (SU) or remittance
received in the Branch. It includes:

a. Misbalances which require a Transactional Correction
b. Misbalances following receipt of a Transactional Acknowledgement
c. Unexplained losses and gains

Section 2 — Roles and Responsibilities

3. There are a number of managerial appointments which have responsibility for ensuring
the approved systems for controlling losses and gains are adopted and implemented. Detailed
roles and responsibilities can be found at Appendix A:

a. Branch Managers

b. Crown Sales and Customer Services Managers
Cc. Regional Support Advisors

d. Security Team

Section 3 — Annual Declaration of Compliance

4. Branch Managers (BMs) are required to complete the Annual Declaration of Compliance
(ADC) which is essentially a self-assessment against the deployment of key internal controls.
The ADC can be found at Appendix B to this Policy and will be reviewed and updated each year
to reflect new business risks. The BM is to complete the ADC in October of each year and
disseminate to the Security Team by 31 Oct. A copy must be retained at the Branch and will be
subject to review during Crown Office audits and by Regional Support Advisors.

5: As part of the ADC, BMs are to ensure each member of staff attend at least one Crown
Team Talk security presentation every 6 months.

Section 4 -— Stock Units

6. BMs must ensure an accurate record of all Stockholders within a Stock Unit (SU) is
maintained; a Stockholder Register template is at Appendix C.

Apr 2013
3
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
Te To provide a deterrent and detect instances of alleged fraud and/or theft, SU must be
rotated on a regular basis.
a. Individual Stock Units. The maximum period for an individual holding and
balancing the same stock is 8 weeks.
b. Multiple Stock Units. Must be checked once every three months as a minimum.
Where multiple SU are balanced by the same individual, the Unit must be checked every
8 weeks.
8. Counter Clerks are to conduct Cash Declaration checks daily. Any discrepancy over £30
must be reported to the BM immediately.
Section 5 — Supervisory Checks
9. The Crown Office management team are to conduct the following checks:
a. Snap Checks. Snap checks are to be conducted on all SUs at least every 8

weeks. The snap check can be broken down into individual stock type areas (eg. 1°
Class Stamps, MVLs etc) with the aim to ensure all assets are checked during the 8
week period.

b. Misbalance Checks. Where SU misbalance by £30 or over, a misbalance check
is to be conducted. A misbalance check is in addition to snap checks and can be
performed by both managers and experienced colleagues. SUs with losses or gains over
£30 declared for 2x consecutive days must be subject to a complete stock and cash
check.

& Supervisory Checks. Crown Sales and Customer Services Managers
(CSCSMs) are to conduct snap checks on main SUs at least twice a year. CSCSMs
must maintain a suitable register of such checks for 2 years.

10. The basis of control is to provide an awareness of discrepancies levels in conjunction
with any actions necessary to implement improvements including training support and product
design. Appendix D provides the minimum standards for conducting supervisory SU checks.

Section 6 —- Loss Management
a. In the event of a Crown Office identifying a loss or gain in excess of £30, the BM must:

a. Conduct an initial investigation with the aim of establishing root cause and
identifying the individual colleague responsible. Where the Office is deploying multiple
SU, the initial investigation must seek to eliminate those colleagues who have had no
access to the SU during the period of loss and where possible identify the colleague
responsible. An Aide Memoire for establishing cause of discrepancy can be found at
Appendix E; this is by no means an exhaustive list of questions. The BM will be required
to use all their local knowledge and Branch experience to identify the Clerk responsible.

Apr 2013
4
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

b. All losses and gains must be reported within 24hrs using the form at Appendix F:

(1) Up to £249.99 Detail held in Branch only

(2) £250+ Reported to Security Team, CSCSM, RSA, FSC

(3) Fraud/theft suspected Reported to Security Team, CSCSM, RSA, FSC
fo On all losses or gains in excess of £2000, the incident must also be reported to
NBSC o I

d. Where individual colleagues can be identified as responsible for a loss or gain of:

(1) Up to £100 the BM should consider deploying the Conduct Code
(2) In excess of £100 the BM must consider deploying the Conduct Code

e. Where blame cannot be attributed, colleagues who have access to the SU during
the period of loss or gain should be subject to additional education and training. The BM
must consider breaking multiple SUs into small user groups in an effort to deter and
detect culpability for future losses or gains.

f. Where fraud and/or theft is suspected, regardless of the amount, the BM must
report the incident in accordance with Paragraph 11b to this Policy. In preparation for a
formal investigation by the Security Operations team, the BM should identify suspects
and witnesses and where necessary preserve any evidence, including transactional data,
documents and CCTV which will be of use to the investigator.

g. To ensure there is a consistent approach across the Network, all BM must comply
with Loss Management, without exception. In doing so, a consistent approach is
delivered across the Crown network which is fair to all colleagues.

Apr 2013
5
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
APPENDIX A TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
il: There are a number of managerial appointments which have responsibility for ensuring

the approved systems for controlling losses and gains are adopted and implemented:

a. Branch Managers:

e Complete the Annual Declaration of Compliance (ADC) in Oct of each year
and disseminate to the Security Team by 31 Oct.
e Conduct snap checks on all Stock Units (SUs) at least every two months
e Conduct misbalance checks on SUs incurring losses and gains above £30
e Implement the Loss Management Process:
o Report losses in a timely manner
o Consider and deploy the Conduct Code where necessary
e Ensure all staff are routinely made aware of the requirement to keep losses
and gains to a minimum and attend at least one Security Crown Team Talk
every 6 months.

b. Crown Sales and Customer Services Managers:
. Conduct Snap Checks of main SUs at least twice a year
. In the event of a Crown loss in excess of £250, the CSCSM is to ensure

that the appropriate Conduct Code action is taken by the BM.

c. Regional Support Advisors
. Ensure Branch Managers have completed ADC
. Conduct compliance checks at Crown branches
. Ensure the necessary Conduct Code is implemented appropriately

d. Security Team

e Conduct Security Health Checks of poor performing Crown branches

e Monitor Losses; identify and escalate poor performing branches for action as
necessary

e Where fraud is suspected, conduct investigations in a timely manner

Apr 2013
A-1
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

APPENDIX B TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY

ANNUAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE

Date CSCSM

Office RSA

Branch Code Security Manager
Number of Counter Branch Manager
Positions

Number of Stock Units

Where the answer to any of the questions below is NO please provide Comment

1 Key Management Yes I No Comments

a Are door/safe/alarms keys held separately?

b Are they signed for?

c Is a daily transfer record maintained?

d Are reserve insert keys kept in the office?

e Are they secured in an envelope in a safe location
marked by a code?

f Are the envelopes date stamped and initialled over the
seal to identify date and person who sealed?

Visitors Yes I No Comments

Do visitors pre-arrange attendance, are pass cards
(and codes when applicable) always checked?

b Is a record maintained of visitors at the office?

c When visitors are on the premises, are staff made
aware by the manager?

d Are visitors confined to areas where no valuable items
are kept?

e Are visitors who have access to valuable items

accompanied at all times?

Mail/Parcel Acceptance Yes I No Comments

Do Royal Mail carriers have access to secure area?

b Where fitted, is parcel hatch opened only when and as
far as necessary?

c Are hatch and packet flaps kept closed and locked
when not in use and immediately after use?

Apr 2013
B-1
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
MUTE Instructions Yes I No Comments

a Do clerks hold their own Date stamps?

b Do they make an impression in the Date stamp book
daily?

c Do they initial beneath the impression?

d Does each clerk have a lockable box?

e Does each clerk hold the key?

f Are duplicate keys held in the safe?

g Do staff have individual passwords?

h Are any passwords known by other members of staff?

] Are all losses over £30 investigated by the manager?

j Are staff told of losses/gains in tills they have served
from?

k Is a local record of losses and gains held by
manager?

1 Are all losses over £250 reported to the Investigation
Team via e mail with report and relevant
documentation?

m Are all suspicious losses reported immediately?

n Are clerks working in tills with high number of losses
of £30 or more, informed and appropriate training
given?

° Are all trainees given individual stocks during their
trial period?

5 Post Shop (counter cache) /Bureau/Lottery/Open Yes I No Comments
Planned Desks (drop safes)

a Is cash kept to a maximum of £1000 at these
positions?

b Are regular transfers made to keep levels low?

c Is there a emergency call facility to achieve this?

d Are excess notes secured until transfer?

e Are all valuable items secured/locked up when leaving
the positions for short periods of time?

Apr 2013
B-2
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

POL00088124
POL00088124

Is the TCD used correctly and cash in the bottom
drawer kept below £100?

Cash and Stock & Safes

Yes

No

Comments

Are all safes/strong rooms kept locked when not in
use?

Is the time delay lock used during business hours?

Is access to the safe confined only to the person who
is responsible for it?

Are all stock, notes and coin secured overnight in safe
accommodation?

Are all value stock items secured overnight within
safe accommodation with time lock and alarm
protection?

If these are kept in a lockable area, are keys
transferred and a record kept?

Is a record kept of all MVLs received and distributed
within the office, including spoilt and obsolete
licences?

Counter Stocks - Individual Tills

Yes

No

Comments

Are stock keys allocated to an individual and
transferred against a signature?

Is a written record maintained of key transfer?

Does the manager keep a record of all stock users?

Are stocks rotated regularly? (Every eight weeks)

Are regular snap checks made by the manager? (At
least every eight weeks)

Do clerks complete and print an accurate Cash
Declaration each night?

Is a record of cash declarations kept within the office?

Is cash checked at every transfer of stock?

Does each clerk have a personal datestamp that is
transferred against a signature?

Do counter staff ever use anyone else's datestamp?

Is the till and terminal locked when the clerk leaves
the counter for tea/lunch breaks?

Are all valuable items locked away when clerk leaves
till?

Apr 2013

B-3
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

POL00088124
POL00088124

Is only working cash held in the top drawer and kept
to a maximum of one to one and a half hours use or in
the case of Open plan, limited to £1000?

Is the remainder secured in the safe or lower drawer?

Is all excess cash withdrawn from the counter at night
and transferred to the main safe?

Is unchecked cash or stock put into counter drawers?

Are signatures always obtained for transfers of cash
and stock?

Are all summarised dockets that are transferred out of
the till, signed for and secured?

Counter Stocks — Shared/Multiple Tills

Yes

No

Comments

Does the manager keep a record all staff using the
stock?

Do clerks keep and print a cash declaration each
night?

Is a record of cash declarations kept within the office?

Do clerks check the cash before taking over the till?

Is the till locked when the clerk is on a break?

Is only working cash kept in the top drawer? (one and
a half hours maximum)

Is remainder secured in lower drawer?

Are signatures obtained for transfers of stock and
cash?

Are transferred summarised dockets kept secure?

ATM

Yes

No

Comments

Is the ATM servicing always carried out by two
members of staff?

Are the ATM safe keys held by two colleagues (staff
other than the limpet alarm code holder or other alarm
code holder)?

Is the ATM safe key secured in the time overlocked
Grade A1 safe overnight?

Is a record maintained for the transfer of ATM safe
key and code box? (Where installed)

Is the ATM balanced on a weekly basis

Apr 2013

B-4
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
10 Post and Go Yes I No Comments
a Are regular staff assigned to servicing P&G, if so is
the duty rotated at least every 8 weeks?
b Are the P&G keys stored securely and signed out ina
register when required?
c Is the P&G affiliated to a dedicated Stock Unit?
d Are TAs accepted and cash subsequently transferred
to the Horizon SU on a daily basis?
e Is cash replenishment/removal and balancing
witnessed by a second person?
f When checking the P&G machine is a visual
inspection of the distributor conducted (ie. if the
machine reports £80 in £1 coins, does a visual
inspection suggest this looks right)?
1 REM Yes I No Comments
a Are REMs transferred over the counter?
b Is full use made of personal siphons and transfer units
to avoid direct contact between carriers and staff?
c Do depositors/carriers including Cash Services enter
secure area?
d Are Cash Services staff/carriers identified before
transfers take place?
e Are all items received, secured in a safe immediately
or as soon as it is practicable?
12 Losses and Gains Yes I No Comments
a Are POs and ABMs aware of the Policy?
b Are all Staff aware of the time scales of reporting
losses?
c Are all losses reported in accordance with the Policy?
d Are BM/ABM's aware they need to report
discrepancies in excess of £250 including error
notices and surpluses?
13 I Other Yes I No I Comments
a Are all tills/drawers lockable?
b Are all packet and parcel hatches lockable?
c Is there sufficient storage space for valuable items?
Apr 2013

B-5
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

Branch Comments and Recommendations

On completion, email this pro-forma to post.office.security; GRO i
by 31 Oct 2013 Soommenmeeemenneeeee

An electronic copy must be help in-Branch for inspection by Audit

ANNUAL CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE

Name of Colleague completing the
Certificate
Grade/Position

Date of Completion

Apr 2013
B-6
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

APPENDIX C TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY

Branch:. ..........

Local Record of Stock Users
Multi User & Individual Stocks

POL00088124
POL00088124

BC COde?- .......ceeeeeeeeeeees Week n:- ........ceeeeeeeeeees

Stock Unit

Name of Staff ** Stock Unit
(who have had
access to stocks)

Name of Staff **
(who have had
access to stocks)

Create additional rows if necessary or photocopy additional hard copy forms.

** Name of clerk and branch name if clerk is borrowed temporarily.

Branch Manager Signature:-

Apr 2013

c-1
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

APPENDIX D TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONDUCTING SUPERVISORY STOCK UNIT CHECKS
il: To meet the minimum standard, a programme of supervisory snap checks must:

a. Be performed by the Crown Management team who will ensure colleagues

complete a cash declaration towards the end of each working day.

b. Include monitoring of the levels of cash held by all colleagues in each Stock Unit

2

(SU) e.g. Main Cash, ATM, Giro, Bureau De Change and Lottery etc. Cash levels must
not exceed the 60/90 rule or in the case of open plan offices, £1000.

oH Check all cash, stock and vouchers to hand and reconcile to the last declared
balance; print and check for ‘outstanding dockets’.

d. Main Cash Stocks held by a Branch Managers (BMs) should be checked by a
Crown Sales and Customer Services Manager (CSCSM) or representative at least bi-
annually.

e. Ensure each SU is checked at least once every 2 months.

f Maintain a record of snap checks. The register must clearly record the date and
time of the check, what was checked and who was present along with signatures.
Records must be retained for two years.

g. Snap checks should be conducted infrequently, so as to avoid any pattern that
could become known to individuals.

The following steps are carried out when undertaking a financial audit at a Crown Office

and are recommended for the BMs to adopt when performing a stock check:

a. Confirm the location of all cash and stock and ascertain if the stock is an
individual or multi-user stock.

b. Obtain cash declaration print for the night prior to the check and previous Branch
Trading Statement, daily prints and all vouchers on hand.

c. Obtain the following print outs from the Horizon system:
(1) Office snapshot, if multi-user stock is in operation

(2) Stock unit snapshot for each stock, if individual stock balancing is used
(3) Suspense account summary

d. Reconcile stock to the snapshot printout.
e. Reconcile daily prints and vouchers on hand to the snapshot print.
f. Reconcile non value items
g. Inform colleagues of the result of the check.
Apr 2013
D-1

POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

3. There is a requirement for BMs to maintain the following records:

a.

Apr 2013

Supervisory Snap & Misbalance Checks:

Financial Year

Week Number

Stock unit

Name of Stock User

Original Loss / Gain result

Type of check (surprise or misbalance)

Result of Loss / Gain, post check

Discrepancy comment, if required

Name of Crown manager or substitute performing the check
Position or grade of checker

Ensure Horizon Weekly Balance Report is signed & dated and retain
documentation relating to check for 2 years

Stock Losses and Gains of £30 or more:

Office Name

Office Code

Week number

Stock Unit ID

Value of Loss/Gain

Full name of individual or all individuals who have served from that stock
unit during the balancing period

. Details of associated Transaction Corrections — values, trading period and
relevant stock units

D-2
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
APPENDIX E TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY
AIDE MEMOIRE FOR ESTABLISHING CAUSE OF STOCK UNIT DISCREPANCY
il: Whilst not an exhaustive list, the following checklist should be used to assist the Branch

Manager (BM) identify the cause of Stock Unit discrepancies:

STOCK

Have you checked that all your stock has been booked in
correctly e.g. postage stamps?

Have you received a stock Transaction Correction and did you
adjust your stock in accordance with the instructions on that
transaction correction?

Did you report the stock discrepancies to Swindon?

Did you need to redeem any values from REM Suspense?

CASH REMITTANCES

Have you had any REM discrepancies?

Did you report these to the Cash Centre?

Has the Cash Centre advised you of any discrepancies on any
returned cash?

Have you entered the value to REM Suspense?

Did you need to redeem any values from REM Suspense?

BUREAU REMITTANCES

Have you received any Bureau currency?

Have you accounted for this correctly? —- Make sure you book in
the value on the advice note and account for any discrepancies
in REM Suspense AFTER you have contacted the Cash Centre

Have you used the Sterling value when returning currency to the
Cash Centre?

METHOD OF PAYMENT

Have all cheques been ‘remitted’ out and sent to the processing
centre?

Has the correct method of payment been used for all
transactions?

Have you got more / fewer cheques than is recorded on
Horizon?

Is there a value in cheques at site, where you do not have the
physical cheques?

Apr 2013
E-1
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
APPENDIX F TO CROWN OFFICE LOSS AND GAIN POLICY
REPORTING OF LOSSES AND GAINS
Losses/Gains between £30 and £249.99
1. In the event of incurring a loss or gain of between £30 — £249.99 on a Stock
Unit (SU), the Branch Managers (BMs) must conduct the following:
a. A full mis-balance check of the cash/stock and vouchers on hand. If the
relevant colleague cannot be present at the balance check, another colleague
must be made available to witness the check.
b. Conduct an initial investigation with the aim of establishing root cause
and identifying the individual colleague responsible. Where the Office is
deploying multiple SU, the initial investigation must seek to eliminate those
colleagues who have had no access to the SU during the period of loss and
where possible identify the colleague responsible.
c. Any loss where dishonesty is suspected, irrespective of value, must be
reported to Post Office Security o1 GRO i
b. All losses and gains must be reported using the form at Annex A within
24hrs:
Discrepancy Reporting action to be taken
Value
>£250 Details held in-Branch only
£250+ Distribute completed form to: —
*  post.office.securityé GRO '
e RSA
e _branchcontrolG,
Fraud suspected I Distribute completed form to:
(regardless of e  post.office.security
amount e CSCSM .
e RSA
ce. On all losses or_aains.in.excess.of £2000, the incident must also be
reported to NBSC on... arse nnd
d. Where individual colleagues can be identified as responsible for a loss or
gain of:
Discrepancy Conduct Code action to be taken
Value
>£100 The BM should consider deploying the Conduct
Code
£100+ The BM must consider deploying the Conduct
Code
Apr 2013

F-4

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

POL00088124
POL00088124

POL00088124
POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

e. Where blame cannot be attributed, colleagues who have access to the
SU during the period of loss or gain should be subject to additional education
and training. The BM must consider breaking multiple SUs into small user
groups in an effort to deter and detect culpability for future losses or gains.

f. Where fraud and/or theft is suspected, regardless of the amount, the BM
must report the incident in accordance with Paragraph 11b to this Policy. In
preparation for a formal investigation by the Security Operations team, the BM
should identify suspects and witnesses and where necessary preserve any
evidence, including transactional data, documents and CCTV which will be of
use to the investigator.

g. To ensure there is a consistent approach across the Network, all BM
must comply with Loss Management, without exception. In doing so, a
consistent approach is delivered across the Crown network which is fair to all
colleagues.

ANNEX:

1. LOSS FORM

Apr 2013
F-2
POST OFFICE INTERNAL.
POL00088124

POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

ANNEX 1 LOSS AND GAIN REPORT

Crown Office Loss Report

Once loss has been identified, please submit this form to the following email
address:

If an explanation for a loss materialises, please ensure you email the Security
Team and other appropriate Stakeholders as soon as possible with the details.

When To Complete:

This report must be completed if it meets any of the following criteria:

+ The loss is greater than £250, even if the reason for the loss is known and a
Transaction Correction or associated surplus is expected to account for it in due course.
+ Any loss or losses, irrespective of amount where there are reasonable
grounds/evidence to suspect the cause was due to dishonest activity at the office.

+ Losses in general (clerk or office) are showing a worsening trend and/or are significantly
in breach of budget.

Where To Send:

This report must be emailed to the following:

¢ Post Office Security (for recording, analysis and assessment of case raise or other
relevant activities).

¢ Regional Support Advisor and Crown Area Manager (to ensure that appropriate
local action is taken by Crown Office Manager, including any support requested from
Compliance and Ops Efficiency Teams).

¢ branchcontrol (as pre-warning of net loss performance and also to factor in any known
reasons for losses).

Additional Requirements:

+ For losses greater than £250, obtain a separate report from each clerk/s that dealt with
the stock and retain these reports, pending any future investigation.

+ Produce and retain event and transaction logs for the whole week of the loss, detailing
every activity within the stock (i.e. all sessions, all transactions, Normal and Reversals).
+ All losses must be reported, recorded, monitored and dealt with, in accordance with the
Losses & Gains policy (including the loss escalation process).

Office Name:

Branch Code:

Postcode:

Telephone Number:

Trading Period & Balance Period: (use
dd/mm/yy)

Apr 2013
F-3
POST OFFICE INTERNAL.
POST OFFICE INTERNAL

POL00088124
POL00088124

Amount: £

Date Loss Identified: (use dd/mm/yy)

Are Cash Declarations performed daily
and are they accurate:

Are losses investigated promptly if
identified from Cash Declarations:

List colleague responsible for loss or
gain or

colleagues who have access to the stock
during the period of loss: (include full
names)

Type of Stock:
(i.e. Main Safe and ATM. Counter tills individual or MUTE,
Bureau, Postshop, SVM, Banking, MVL, etc).

Have all Cash, Stock & Vouchers been
checked:

Have all fitments (pedestals, safe,
inserts, etc) and waste bins been
searched:

Provide a full explanation for the loss
(Mandatory):

If known, what Product or Process is this
loss associated to

Is a Transaction Correction (TC)
expected, please provide details:

Were there any losses/gains of a similar
amount during this week, or last week:
If yes, give details:

Please provide the date of the last snap
check & result on the individual or stock
unit:

Are losses by the clerk/s involved giving

Apr 2013

F-4
POST OFFICE INTERNAL
POL00088124

POL00088124

POST OFFICE INTERNAL

cause for concern.
If yes, give details of dates and amounts

Have you deployed the Conduct Code in
respect of this incident
If not Why?

Are losses in the office giving cause for
concern.
If yes, give details of dates and amounts

Is there anything known which may
provide the clerk/s involved in the loss
with a motive for dishonesty.

(If yes, please include a separate report
and only circulate to the Security Team).

Is there any reason to doubt the honesty
of any other members of staff or other
persons who had access on the day

(If yes, please include a separate report
and only circulate to the Security Team).

Please provide the name of your CSCSM
(mandatory)

Reported By:
(insert full name & job title)

Date: (use dd/mm/lyy)

Please email this completed form in accordance with the Losses and Gains Policy.
If you have any queries, you can contact the Security Team i fidence as follows:
Email: Post Office Security (post.office.security( Y
Address: Post Office Ltd, Security Team, Royal Mail, 3raFic
Quay, Salford, M50 3NW.

This report and associated documents should be retained securely within the office for 2
years and made available upon request. If an explanation for a loss materialises, the
Security Team and other appropriate Stakeholders must be informed as soon as
possible.

Apr 2013
F-5
POST OFFICE INTERNAL.
