POL00119445
POL00119445

From: martin smithk.

Sent: Mon 28/01/2013 2:

To: Steve Bradshaw

Ce: *mark.ford_ ~ 7
Subject: Post Office Ltd - 24676 - Prosecution of Ishaq

Attachment: Attachment

Hi Steve,

Please find attached a copy of a letter which we have received from the defendant's solicitors today. I
am somewhat amazed as they continue to miss the point. Even on the defendant's account it would
not have been appropriate to falsify the stock records if he suspected the Horizon system was
malfunctioning.

As you will see the def's solicitors have asked the court to list the case for an "intervention hearing"
on 5th February 2013. I will let you know of anything further which I may hear with regard to the
listing as this appears to be a provisional date at the present time.

Many thanks for the colour copies of SB/21. I will send these out today. Given the forthcoming
intervention hearing it would undoubtedly assist if we could serve the remaining evidence as soon
as possible i.e. the statement requested by Mark Ford;

dealing with the BTSs and the requirement to keep them,

commenting on the lack of remittances of stamps into the branch during the period etc,
producing the call logs to demonstrate no reported thefts/no reports of malfunction,
training records,

Previous audit records and comment thereon.

FEN

Given the stance which the defendant is still taking with regard to the malfunctioning of the Horizon
system, is it possible to establish whether the subsequent Sub Postmaster has had any problems with
the Hz system - after all the kit in the branch would presumably have remained the same.

Many thanks,

Martin.

CartwrightKing

fm SOL CTT OR S me
Nottingham I Birmingham I Derby I Leicester I Sheffield I Newcastle Gateshead
Majority House, 51 Lodge Lane, Derby, DE1 3HB

www co.uk W @CartwrightKing

cartwrightking.

This message is confidential and may contain legally privileged information. If you have received this in error please delete
this message and let us know by email or telephone. A list of directors is available at each office. Authorised and regulated by
the Solicitors Regulation Authority No: 312459. VAT Registration No: 737837295.

POL00119445
POL00119445
