POL00091258
POL00091258

Memo Royal Mail

The Real Network

3" February 2011 Legal Services

3° Floor

6a Eccleston Street
Post Office Security Victoria

LONDON SWIW 9LT

c.c. Christopher Knight

POST OFFICE LIMITED v ALISON LORAINE HALL
CASE NO: POLTD/1011/0095

Noted. In my opinion the evidence is sufficient to afford a realistic prospect of
conviction of the above named on the charge set out on the attached Schedule.
There is a medium prospect of success in view of the Defendant's denials.

In view of the nature of the alleged offence prosecution would be appropriate.
This case is, in my opinion, more suitable for trial in the Crown Court.

In the event that the prosecution is authorised, please forward the papers to the PSO
to obtain summonses.

No further statements need be obtained at this stage.

If the Defendant should elect trial or if the Magistrates refuse jurisdiction or if a Not
Guilty plea is entered, the Investigation Manager should obtain and associate all
necessary statements and exhibits. I list below the statements which appear to be
necessary in this case, but the Investigation Manager should also consider whether
there are any other areas which can usefully be covered and include any such
evidence.

1 Copy statement explaining the Defendant’s duties and responsibilities as a
Subpostmaster, the relevant provisions of the contract should be produced.

2 Copy statement explaining Horizon relevant procedures in relation to the
account.
3 Copy statements dealing with the Horizon system from Tracey Bedford,

Migration Support, dealing with the finding on the 2™ September 2010 relating
to the shortage. It should also explain the reason for her visit and action
taken as a result of finding the discrepancy.

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 1 of 3

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mall Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 3° Floor, 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y OH
Memo

Cont...

4 Copy statement from Auditors. The Auditors should produce their report and
financial documentation. 1 understand this may be in the form of a disk
which should set out the findings and relevant documentation. The loss
should be explained.

5 Copy statement explaining how the National Lottery Scratch Cards are
accounted for. This should also cover findings in relation to the Transaction
Corrections and whether these could have accounted for the loss.

6 Copy statement from the person at the Horizon Helpline confirming calls made
and whether these would relate to the loss at the Office.

7 Copy statement from staff working at the Office stating their duties, whether
they were responsible for the loss or whether they were aware of the loss
‘and when they became aware.

8 The cash declaration should be produced together with Trading Statements.

9 A statement from Mr Thomneycroft dealing with matters outlined in the Officer's
report of 25" January 2011.

10 Copy statement from Interviewing Officers.

In this event, please prepare one set of typed copies of those statements and
exhibits. Please also prepare typed draft lists of statements and exhibits (statements
to appear in chronological order and exhibits in the same order in which they are
produced by the witnesses). A separate typed list of witnesses, showing their
addresses, should also be supplied.

You will be aware of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act
1996 concerning disclosure. Please confirm whether there is any material which might
reasonably be considered capable of undermining the Prosecution case or assisting the
Defence case and which has not already been disclosed. Please also let me have
Forms CSO06C, D and E in any event.

The papers must be sent to this Office at least 14 days before the proposed
committal proceedings or summary trial date.

It is intended to make application for compensation. On return of the papers, please
advise cost of Special Delivery / total loss to the Business.

If you wish to apply for investigation costs please let me know the amount as soon
as possible. In the event of a conviction, an application will be made to recover
these costs pursuant to Section 18 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1965. I would
be grateful if when making an application for Investigation costs the Court is provided
with the information that Royal Mail Limited is a private prosecutor and a_ brief
explanation of how these costs are calculated. if you require any assistance please
do not hesitate to contact me.

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 3

Royal Mail is @ trading name of Royal Mall Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 3"° Floor, 100 Vicotria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y OHQ
¢:\documents and settings \christopher.g.knight\local settings \temporary internet

files \olk168\265934m1.doc

POL00091258
POL00091258
POL00091258
POL00091258

Memo

Cont...

The prosecution will be conducted by my Agents Messrs O’Garra’s, Solicitors of 32
Park Square, Leeds LS! 2PF (Tel.No. [~ Please liaise with
Agents before fixing a hearing date.

The papers should be returned to this Office at least four weeks before the hearing
date in order that I may send the instructions to Agents.

J A McFarlane
Principal Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

Ref: CRM/265934/JMcF

© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 3 of 3

Royal Mail is @ trading name of Royal Mall Group Limited. Registered number 4138203

Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 3"° Floor, 100 Vicotria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y OHQ
¢:\documents and settings \christopher.g.knight\local settings \temporary internet

files \olk168\265934m1.doc
