POL00045051

POL00045051
PROVISION OF
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Section 18 Proceeds of Crime Act 2002)
R v Seema Misra
The defendant shall, within days of the date of the requirement under Section 18 of the Proceeds of

Crime Act 2002, swear and file in this Honourable Court and serve on Jamail Singh, Senior Lawyer of the Royal
Mail Group Ltd, 6A Eccleston Street, London, SW1W 9LT an affidavit disclosing the following:
Details of all income, whether declared or undeclared for tax purpose including details of any
employment and income for the period of six years, preceding the date when these proceedings were

commenced, that date being 26" November 2008.

Details of all property and land, freehold or leasehold, owned both in the United Kingdom and abroad,
whether held in the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or nominees or in which the defendant

has an interest, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name) and the extent of that

interest and in particular

« 14 Station Approach, West Byfleet, KT14 6NG

iii. Details of all motor vehicles owned or possessed, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with
others or in which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any

alias name).

iv. Details of all bank accounts, or deposits with licensed deposit takers in the UK or abroad, whether held in
the defendant's sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant is an authorised

signatory, (or in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name) and in particular,

* Halifax account.
National Westminster account!”
* HSBC account!

V. Details of all Credit and Debit card accounts, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with
others or in relation to which the defendant is an authorised signatory, (or in relation to which the

defendant has used any alias name).
POL00045051
POL00045051

vi. Details of all UK shares and equities, securities, bonds, unit trusts, or any foreign equivalents held by the
defendant, whether held in the defendants sole name, jointly with others or in any nominees names, (or

in relation to which the defendant has used any alias name).

vii. Details of all Insurance policies where there is a financial benefit at the end of the term, whether held on
the defendants life, jointly on another's’ life, or any other persons life, (or in relation to which the

defendant has used any alias name).

vill Details of any deposits of cash. whether in safety deposit boxes or in any other place.

ix. Details of all safety deposit boxes held, whether in the UK or abroad, whether held in the defendant's
sole name, jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has authorised access, (or in relation

to which the defendant has used any alias name).

x. Details of any other realisable assets held by the defendant, whether held in the defendant's sole name,
jointly with others or in relation to which the defendant has an interest, (or in relation to which the
defendant has used any alias name) anywhere in the World.

xi. Details of any Limited Company assets in relation to which the defendant is a director, the majority

shareholder, or has a controlling interest in that Company.

xii. Details of all financial commitments and debts of the defendant.

xiii. Details of all transfers by way of gift or for any consideration, which is inadequate, made by the
defendant, his servants or agents for the period of six years, preceding the date when these proceedings
were commenced, (26" November 2008). Such details to include the date of such transfer, the value

thereof and sufficient particulars of the recipient of such transfers, to enable the same to be identified.

The Court may draw an inference from any refusal or failure to comply with this order, or from any
unsatisfactory response, or undue delay in the defendant's response.

By order of the Crown Court sitting at Guildford

%

His Honour Judge:

¢
4 Date:

_~

ad

