CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A0l RESTRICTED CONTRACTS
SCHEDULE A01- INTERPRETATION
Version Reason for change Frozen/issue date
reference
10 As signed (not in this format) 28 July 1999
Ila CCN3 12a adds “HAPS”; CCN41 1a adds “SPM”;

CCN432a amends “Acceptance Incident”
im Baseline copy of I-la 18 October 1999
12a (CCN245¢ add “Working Document”; CCN323a to

“APS Generic Rules”; CCNS25 to amend “POCL

Data”
12 Baseline copy of 1.2a 30 November 1999
14a CCN598a to amend “PDs”; CCN617 to remove

“Contract Steering Group”, “CCB”, “Change Control

Board”, “New Business Board” and add “ICCB”,

“Joint Change Control Board”, “New Requirements

Board”, “Joint National Roll-Out Board”, “Joint

CSR+ Project Board”; CCN659 to add “Post Office

Network”, “PON”

4 Baseline copy of 14a 21 uly 2000

2.0a Applying CCN690 to replace definitions of CCD” &

“CRD, CCN696a to defintion of CSR+;CCN6SSa

add 2 new definitions & amend definition of CS

Completion Date
2.00 Adjusting “outlet” word in CCN655a;Adding in

omitted CCN 717a
2.0 Baseline copy of 2.06 12 January 2001
4.0a ‘New Schedule to introduce Network Banking Service I 20/06/02
4.0 To introduce Network Banking Service 21.06.02
4.01 ‘Amended in accordance with CCN 850 Attachment 8_I 28.06.02
5.0a Applying CCN796; CCN841; CCN944; CCN 954b
3.0 Applying 4.01 Baseline 10 October 2002
3.04 Applying 4.01 Baseline
3.0e Applying CCN 850, Definition of Existing Services
5.0 Baseline copy of 5.0¢ 30 October 2002

DEFINITION OF TERMS

‘Terms having the same meaning which are separated by the word “or” in this Schedule
represent alternative versions of equivalent terms and may be used interchangeably,

As used in this Codified Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings.

Acceptance:

Acceptance of a POCL Service or Release in accordance with the relevant Acceptance

Procedure.

Interpretation

Page I of 32

Version 50
0030402002105.

POL00337521
POL00337521

_-(Commented INS1}: consi

POL00337521

POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A0l RESTRICTED CONTRACTS
Acceptance Criteria:
The criteria for Acceptance of POCL Services or Releases as agreed in writing by POCL and the
Contractor. This includes the Operational Trial Criteria.
Acceptance Incident:
‘Any unusual or undesirable occurrence, or request for advice and guidance, which has been
reported in writing to the Contractor for analysis in respect of an Acceptance Test. Commented [GRW2}: Pac: 2

ccN432a

Acceptance Period:
The period identified in the appropriate Acceptance Specification as the allowable time for an
Acceptance Test. This includes the Operational Trial Period.

Acceptance Procedure:
Any procedure agreed for Acceptance of a POCL Service or a Release.

Acceptance Specification:
‘A document describing the details of an Acceptance Test.

Acceptance Test:
‘A process, defined in any Acceptance Procedure, for determining whether a Service meets the
relevant Acceptance Criteria, and which may include Acceptance Trials, Acceptance Reviews,
or both of these.

Accounting Week:
‘A period (of consecutive days) which is defined in POCL Reference Data provided to Pathway
and which begins and ends at midnight. For information only, such period will usually
commence at midnight on Thursday and last for a period of seven days.

Additional POCL Service or Additional POL Service: (Commented INS3}: cona41

Any POCL Service to be supplied pursuant to Clause 204 of this Codified Agreement.

Additional Product:
Any Product to be supplied pursuant to Clause 207 of this Codified Agreement.

Admin Positions:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 2.3 of Schedule NOL.

Advertisement:
The advertisement placed by POCL and the DSS in the Official Journal of the European
Communities on 30 August 1994 for the supply of (inter alia) the POCL Service Infrastructure
and the POCL Services.

«to operate a franchise post office or sub-post office, including without
limitation sub-post masters on a non-franchise contract, and franchisees of post offices or sub-
post offices.

AIS:
Application Interface Specification,

ALPS:
Anexisting POCL order book control system.

AP:
Automated payment, effected by the Automated Payment Service.

Interpretation ~ oe Page 2 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Saige Ls

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

APACS:
The Association for Payment and Clearing Services.

AP Client Specification:
‘A document describing an APS Client Service Type.

Application:
A Service delivered through and dependent upon the medium of the POCL Service
Infrastructure.

Application Interface Specification:
ACCD describing an interface, including, but not limited to, the definition with which data
transferred across that interface must comply.

approve:
To approve in writing, and related terms shall be construed accordingly.

APPU:
Automated payments peripherals unit

APS:
Automated Payment Service (q.v.).

APS Client Service Type:
Each APS Client Service Type is a particular variant of APS characterised by a specific Token,
specific processing rules and specific Client communication protocols. Each APS Client Service
Type is documented in an AP Client Specification,

APT:
The Automated Payment Terminal.

Archive Server:
The platform on which the Contractor gathers and archives data for subsequent retrieval and/or
analysis.

Asset Manager:
The Software referred to as such and identified in Schedule BOL.

Associated Fee:
A fee charged by POCL to Customers on its own or a Client’s behalf for a service or goods, that
is collected when the service is performed or the goods are supplied.

ATM:
Automated teller machine,

Attachable Computer System:
‘A computer system (provided either by the Contractor under this Codified Agreement, or by any
other party authorised by POCL and agreed with the Contractor) authorised by POCL for
connection to the POCL Service Infrastructure,

Audit Record Query:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 7.3.1 of Schedule NO1.

Authorised Official:
A person authorised by POCL to sanction alterations or modifications to POCL Premises.

interpretation ~ Page 3 of 32 ~ ~ Version 50
0030402002105.

POL00337521
POL00337521

Commented [ABF4]: Page: 2
CcN323a

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Authorised Person:
‘A person authorised to collect a benefit payment.

Authorising Officer:
A representative of POCL who has authority to raise orders, authorise invoices, and may make
decisions on specified areas on behalf of POCL.

Authorities’ Agreement:
The agreement dated 15th May, 1996 between DSS, POCL and the Contractor, referred to in
Recital (b) to this Codified Agreement.

Automated Payment Servi
The automated payment service supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.1 of this
Codified Agreement.

Balance:
The process of reconciling the cash and Stock on hand at the start and end of a period (which
may be a POCL Outlet Accounting Period) with sales and receipts during the period.

Balancing Period:
The time between final Balances of a Stock Unit.

Bank Interface Testing Stage:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 1.7 of Annex I to Schedule NO2.

Banking Transaction:
The Transactions supported by the NBS set out in paragraph 5.1.2 of Schedule NOL.

Banks:
The banks, building societies and/or other organisations for or on behalf of which POCL
provides banking services from time to time, as agreed by the parties pursuant to the Operational
Business Change procedure and/or the Change Control Procedure, as appropriate.

Beneficiary:
‘A person entitled to receive one or more benefits.

Board:
Any of the bodies referred to in paragraph 2.1.2 of Schedule A04

Bronze Service Outlet:
‘An Outlet that seeks to use a Dialled Connection 24 hours per day, 7 days per week

C0 Confirmation:
A confirmation message written by the NBS Counter Application during a Banking Transaction
when that Banking Transaction has been Declined for a reason other than the receipt from the
NBE of an NB Authorisation Declining the Banking Transaction.

C0 Confirmation Agent:
The software application to be installed in each Data Centre and used to process CO
Confirmations transmitted between the Outlet NB System elements and the NBE.

C1 Confirmation:
‘A confirmation message created by the NB Counter Application at the end of a Banking
Transaction, (and written to the message store at the end of the EPOSS session) which records
the outcome of the Banking Transaction.

interpretation ” - Page 40f 33 ~ ~ Version 50
0030402002105.

POL00337521
POL00337521
POL00337521

POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A0l RESTRICTED CONTRACTS
C1 Confirmation Agent:
The software application to be installed in each Data Centre and used to process C1
Confirmations transmitted between the Outlet NB System elements and the DRSH.
C4 Confirmati
ANB Confirmation sent from the NBE containing, inter alia, the NBE’s view of a Banking
Transaction.
CAPO:
The Bank which supports Post Office account cards.
Cash Account:
The method by which the Transactions performed and the cash and Stock on hand at the end of a
POCL Outlet Accounting Period are declared to POCL main accounting offices.
Cash Account Period:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 3.6 of Schedule G01.
Cash-Back:
An EFTPOS arrangement which allows a Customer to draw cash as part of a normal
Transaction,
Cash Centre
‘A centre that manages and distributes value items for the POCL network.
Cash Flow Reporting:
Reporting by an Outlet to a counters remittance unit at the end of the POCL Outlet Accounting
Period. Each such report consists of a summary over the POCL Outlet Accounting Period of the
daily declarations made at close of business of its cash in hand, cash Remittances sent and cash
Remittances received, by denomination, during that day. ic Commented [ABF5]: ccNé17 }

cep:
Contract Controlled Document (q.v.)

cc

Change Control Note (q.v.).

Central Network:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 2.2.4(a) of Schedule NO8.

(Commented [ABF6]:ccNs17

Change Control Note:
A document used in the Change Control Procedure and defined in Schedule AOS.

Change Control Procedure:
The procedure for change specified in Schedule AOS.

Change Request:
‘A request to make a change for the purpose of paragraph 3 of Schedule AOS.
Charges:
The charges payable by POCL under this Codified Agreement, including Schedule A12.
Client:
‘An organisation other than a Bank on behalf of which POCL provides a service to Customers at
Outlets.
Interpretation ~ en Page 5 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0

8:0030402002- 1.05.
POL00337521
POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Client Service Type:
A variant of a standard service with detailed aspects of that service customised to meet a
specific Client’s needs.

Commercial Director of ICL:
The Director, Commercial and Legal Affairs of ICL or his successor from time to time.

commit:
In relation to a Transaction, to execute a Transaction Committal for that Transaction, Related
terms shall be construed accordingly.

Compliant Outlet:
‘An Outlet which allows sufficient operational space for the Horizon equipment to be installed
and sufficient space for other Post Office equipment and transactions to be carried out. The
space requirements for the Horizon equipment are given in Site Survey Requirements
(IW/REQ/005). The minimum dimensions for a Counter Position are detailed by POCL in their
documents for refurbished offices and ISIS controlled schemes. Layouts agreed by POCL shall
be shown on any drawings presented in support of compliance, indicating which layout has been
used and at which Counter Position

A dedicated live electrical circuit (or circuits) shall be provided at the Post Office Outlet
distribution board. The circuit(s) shall meet in force electrical regulations and the documented
requirements of the Horizon system, (Commented INST]: cone55a }

Composite Product:
A method of handling cash or Value Stock in which a number of POCL Product lines are
combined for handling.

Confidential Information:
‘All information (other than Escher Confidential Information defined in Schedule B11)
designated as such by either party hereto in writing together with the existence and terms of this
Codified Agreement, the negotiations relating thereto and all other information (whether in
writing or not) which relates to the business, affairs, Products, developments, trade secrets,
know-how, personnel, customers and suppliers of either party or information which may
reasonably be regarded as the confidential information of the disclosing party.

Contingency Services:
The contingency services specified in Schedules E9, F9, G11, H9, K9 and N9 of this Codified
Agreement, to be performed pursuant to Clause 410 of this Codified Agreement.

Contract Administration Board:
The body referred to as such in the Management Table in the Annex to Schedule A04.

Contract Controlled Document:
‘A document which: a) is listed as a CCD in the CCD entitled “Contract Controlled and
Referenced Document List" (reference SUP/CON/001; ICL Pathway reference BP/SPE/026);
and b) is referred to (such reference being to that document itself or by reference to a class or
group of documents which includes that document) in this Codified Agreement or in a CCD; and
c) may only be amended through the Change Control Procedure. {Commented INSB}: ccx690

Contract Referenced Document: ~ (Commented [NS9}: cow590
‘A document which: a) is listed as a CRD in the CCD entitled “Contract Controlled and .
Com ted [ABF10]:
Referenced Document List” (reference SUP/CON/001; ICL Pathway reference BP/SPE/026); (Commented {ABFIO]: covet?
and b) is referred to in this Codified Agreement; and c) may be amended other than through the
Change Control Procedure.

Interpretation ~ Page 6 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Saige Ls

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Contracted Transaction Time:
The time set out in this Codified Agreement against which a Transaction is measured for
determining performance against Service Levels.

Contracted New Business Volume:
Each of the levels defined as a “Contracted Volume” in the CCD entitled “Horizon New Service
Business Volumes” (PA/PER/031) applicable to components of the POCL Service Infrastructure
as specified in that CCD.

Contractor Consumables:
The consumables which are required for the performance of the POCL Services by the
Contractor, other than consumables so used on the POCL Premises.

Contractor’s Representative:
The person so notified to POCL by the Contractor.

Contractor's Software:
The software identified as such in Schedule BOL

Core System:
Such of the Core System Services as are to be provided during the currency of the Core System
Release in accordance with Clauses 201.3 and 201.6.

Core System Plus:
Such of the Core System Services as are to be provided during the currency of CSR+ in
accordance with Clauses 201.3 and 201.6.

Core System Products:
The Products to be supplied pursuant to Clause 205 of this Codified Agreement

Core System Release:
The Release defined in the CCD entitled “ICL Pathway Core System Release Contents
Description”.

Core System Services:
The POCL Services to be supplied pursuant to Clause 201 of this Codified Agreement.

Counter Clerk:
Any person who serves Customers at a Counter Position in a post office.

Counter Equipment:
The PC’s, printers, screens, local area network and other equipment installed by the Contractor
in post offices for the provision of the POCL Services.

Counter Position:
A serving position in a post office, where a Customer transacts business with a Counter Clerk.

CRD:
Contract Referenced Document (q.v.)

CS Completion Date:
The date by which Roll Out of the Core System shall have been completed to 99 per cent. of all
Outlets scheduled to be installed under Part A of the Roll Out Programme, as amended from
time to time through the Change Control Procedure.

Interpretation ~ Page 7 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Saige Ls

POL00337521
POL00337521

(Commented [NS1 1}: cone553 J

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

CSR:
Core System Release (q.¥.)

CSR Acceptance:
The meaning ascribed thereto in paragraph I of Schedule All.

CSR Acceptance Specifications, CSR Acceptance Tests, CSR Core Observation Period and
CSR Operational Trial Review Period:
‘The meanings respectively ascribed to them in Schedule AI.

CSR+:
The Release defined in the CCD entitled “ICL Pathway Core System Release Plus Contents
Description” as amended and/or supplemented by and in accordance with the CCDs entitled
“Supplement to Addendum B of the ICL Pathway Core System Release Plus Contents
Description” and “PINICL Resolution Status for Release Authorisation Board for CSR+".

‘Customer:
‘A person transacting, or seeking to transact, business with POCL through any of the Services.

Customer Session:
A set of contiguous Transactions recording business transacted by a single Customer.

D Messages:
‘A message transmitted by the NBE to the DRSH when the amount included in settlement of a
Banking Transaction differs between the Bank and the Counter Position,

Data Centre:
Bither or both (as the context requires) of the central computer systems comprising Hardware,
Software and local networks used by the Contractor in the provision of the POCL Services.

Data Controller:
POCL or any Bank, Client or other third party who is the Data Controller (within the meaning
ascribed to that expression in the Data Protection Act 1998) of any Personal Data which are or
are intended to be (on the date that the parties enter into the CCN which introduces the NBS)
processed by the Contractor under the applicable provisions of this Codified Agreement.

Data File:
‘A set of electronic data, contained within a single file and held or used within, or transmitted
over, any of the POCL Services provided by the Contractor.

Data Processor:
‘The meaning ascribed thereto in the Data Protection Act 1998,

Data Reconciliation Service:
The service to be provided by the Contractor (described in paragraph 8 of Schedule NO1 and
forming part of the NBS) which matches Banking Transaction data from automated Counter
Positions to NBE data and reports to POCL accordingly.

Data Reconciliation Service Host:
The server ina Data Centre used for processing and storing Banking Transaction data for
reconciliation and retrieval purposes.

Data Warehouse:
The data warehouse used by the Contractor to provide management information to POCL in connection
with the Existing Services and the NBS.

Interpretation ~ Page 8 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Saige Ls

POL00337521
POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Default:
‘Any breach of the obligations of either party (including but not limited to fundamental breach or
breach of a fundamental term) or any default, act, omission, negligence or statement of either
party, its employees, agents or sub-contractors in connection with or in relation to the subject
matter of this Codified Agreement and in respect of which such party is liable to the other.

Deliverable:
‘An item which the Contractor is required to provide under the terms of this Codified Agreement,
including without limitation Products.

Deposited Software:
Alll software designated as such in Schedule BOL.

Development Services:
The development services to be performed by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 403 of this
Codified Agreement.

Dialled Connection:
‘A network connection to an Outlet to be established for the purposes of transferring data
between that Outlet and a Data Centre and disconnected once that data transfer is complete,
including such connections established via satellite.

Direct Interface Test:
A test carried out to confirm compliance with an Application Interface Specification.

Disputed Banking Transaction Notice:
Within Period One (as defined in paragraph 7.3.1 of Schedule N01), notification (and the
provision of related information) of a Banking Transaction which requires investigation to the
Contractor’s management support unit (MSU) in accordance with the procedure set out in the
CCD entitled “Network Banking Reconciliation and Incident Management" (NB/PRO/002) for
raising a DBTN (as referred to in that CCD) via the enquiry service;

Dispute Resolution Procedure:
The procedure set out in Clause 807 of this Codified Agreement

Distribution Centre:
Sites from which cash, Value Stock and other items (other than data) are distributed to Outlets.

DIT:
Direct Interface Test

DNS:
Department for National Savings.

Documentation:
‘The documents listed in Schedule B03.

DRS:
Data Reconciliation Service.

DRSH:

Data Reconciliation Service Host.
DSs:

DWP DSS Agreement:

The agreement between DSS and the Contractor dated 15th May, 1996 as referred to in Recital
(b) to this Codified Agreement.

Interpretation ~ Page 9 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Saige Ls

POL00337521
POL00337521

{Commented (20C14}: con944 )

POL00337521
POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

DVLA:
Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency.

Dwp:
The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions (known as The Secretary of State for Social

Security prior to 7" June 2001) acting through and on behalf of the Department for Work and

Pensions and on behalf of the Department for Social Development for Northern Ireland (prior to

restructuring and renaming on 7" June 2001 known as DSS). Lf Commented [JDC15}: ccNo44 )

ECCO+:
A POCL EPOS system installed in some Outlets.

EFT:
Electronic funds transfer.

EFTPOs:
Electronic Funds Transfer at Point of Sale: a term used to describe the debiting of Customers’
accounts, usually through EPOS systems, for goods or services they purchase

End to End Banking:
The end-to-end systems and services (of which (without limitation) the NBS, the NB System, the
NBE, LINK (for so long as POCL continue to use LINK) and Bank systems form part) required
to deliver network banking to Customers.

End User:
Any employee of the Post Office Group and any Agent or employee thereof.

EPOS:
Electronic Point of Sale: a term used to describe the systems typically used in retail shops and
stores, at the point of customer service, for recording sales transactions.

EPOSS:
The EPOS Service supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.2 of this Codified
Agreement.

Equipment:
‘Any physical hardware (excluding Paypoles and including, without limitation, supply cords,
interface cables and cords, User-installable components and peripherals) forming part of the
POCL Service Infrastructure, or supplied under this Codified Agreement as an Optional Product
or an Additional Product

ESN

The Electronic Stop Notice Computer System of DSS.

Event:
‘A recorded and auditable instance of business administration activity, such as the registration of
anew User, or the production of a Report.

Existing Services:
EPOSS, APS, LFS, the POCL Infrastructure Services and OBCS as developed and in operation
pursuant to this Codified Agreement, prior to both parties’ signature to the CCN 850introducing
the NBS.

Interpretation ~ Page 10 0f 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 30/10/2002 11:58:0030440/2002-14-05
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Failed Acceptance:
The failure to meet the thresholds referred to in paragraph 2.2 of Schedule A11 by the end of the
relevant CSR Core Observation Period or deemed failure under paragraph 3.4 of Schedule Al.

Final Deadline for CSR Acceptance:
The date specified as such in Schedule BO9.

Fixed Connection:
‘A network connection to an Outlet which is intended to be established and held open between
times agreed by the parties.

Framework:
The Software referred to as such and identified in Schedule BOL.

FRIACO:
Flat rate internet access call origination.

FRIACO Port:
A network connection to the FRIACO service for one Outlet at a time.

Governmental Regulation:
Any United Kingdom primary legislation and any United Kingdom secondary legislation,

Guarantor:
Bither of Fujitsu Services Holdings Ple (formerly ICL Ple) or Fujitsu Limited.

HAPS
The Host Automated Payments System operated by POCL.

Hardware:
Any hardware (excluding Paypoles) used by the Contractor to provide POCL Services under this
Codified Agreement including hardware supplied as a Core System Product or as an Optional
Product or Additional Product.

HCI:
Human Computer Interface (q.v.).

Head Office Counter Position:
A single position gateway configuration or a multi-position gateway configuration to be installed
in POCL office premises that are not Outlets. Save as may be agreed by change control, the use
of configurations as Head Office Counter Positions shall not require the Contractor to undertake
any additional software development, testing or support, or any site modification or preparation
beyond standard site preparation, The Head Office Counter Positions shall when installed count
as Outlets to which Roll Out had occurred for the purposes of the Outlet cost element adjustment
in paragraph 5.9 of Schedule A12

Help Desk:
Save as expressly provided otherwise, the initial point of call for Users in need of support
relating to the POCL Services.

Helpdesk:
Help Desk (q.v.).

Horizon System Help Desk:
See Help Desk.

Interpretation ” ee Page LI of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 3 :8:0030402002 1:05.

POL00337521
POL00337521

Commented [JGC16]: Page: 8
cON3i2a

{Commented [NS17}: ©

POL00337521
POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

HMG:
Her (or His) Majesty’s Government.

HSM:
‘The hardware security module in which PINs are translated prior to transmission of encrypted
data from the POCL Service Infrastructure to the NBE.

Human Computer Interface:
The presentation of computer systems to the User.

ICL Pathway:
the Contractor (gv)

{Commented [JDC18}: cow954i> J

ICL Pathway Limited:
the Contractor (qv).

‘(Commented [JDC19}: cow 954» )

TIN:

Issuer Identification Number.

The implementation services to be supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 404 of this
Codified Agreement.

IMs:
The inventory management system used by POCL.

Incident:
Any perceived abnormal or undesirable occurrence relating to a POCL Service.

Incident Resolution:
The agreed closure of an Incident which may include the re-establishment of a POCL Service
following an Incident or, where the Incident was found not to be an abnormal or undesirable
occurrence, clarification of the incorrect perception.

Incident Resolution Time:
The time elapsed between the logging of an Incident by the Help Desk, and the Incident
Resolution,

Intellectual Property Rights:
Patents, trade marks, service marks, design rights (whether registrable or otherwise),
applications for any of the foregoing, moral rights, copyright, trade or business names and other
similar rights or obligations whether registrable or not in any country (including but not limited
to the United Kingdom).

Internal Code:
Machine readable software (including PIN Pad firmware) supplied as an integral part of the
Hardware and not listed herein,

IPR:
Intellectual Property Rights (q.v.).

ISDN Agreements:
The agreements to be transferred by POCL to the Contractor pursuant to Clause 401.3 of this,
Codified Agreement.

Interpretation ~ Page 12 0f 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0

Last saved 3

:8:0030402002 1:05.

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Issuer Identification Number:
The identification number ascribed to an issuer of a magnetic card or similar token by APACS.

IT:

Information Technology.

ICCB:
Joint Change Control Board (q.v.).

Joint Change Control Board:
The body referred to as such in the Management Table in the Annex to Schedule A04.

Joint National Roll Out Board

The joint project board that oversaw National Roll Out and held its last meeting on 14" May
2001

Local Area Network.

Logistics Feeder Service.

The branded and shared network of cash machines and self-service terminals of certain member
banks and building societies in the UK, which enables services from one member bank or
building society to be available at cash machines of all member banks and building societies, to
be construed for the purposes of this Codified Agreement as a single system.

Logistics Feeder Service:
The logistics feeder service supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.5 of this Codified
Agreement.

Lubn:
The check digit formula which is part of the APACS standard.

M25 Rollout:
Roll Out of a POCL Service to Outlets in the area within the M25 motorway which currently use
ALPS.

MAAWP:
Maximum Authorisation Agent Wait Period

MAC:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 10.6.4(b) of Schedule NOI.

MAC Key:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 10.6.4(b) of Schedule NOL.

Management Services:
‘The management services to be supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 602 of this
Codified Agreement.

Managing Director of POCL:
The Group Managing Director of the Post Office from time to time responsible for the
businesses currently carried on by POCL (currently Mr. Stuart Sweetman).
Interpretation ~ Page 13 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 3( 58:003040-2002-H1:05.

POL00337521

POL00337521
(Commented [ABF20}:_ cows17 i}
(Commented [ABF21}: cone17 J

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Maximum Authorisation Agent Wait Period:
The period the NB Authorisation Agent shall wait for a corresponding NB Authorisation after
generating a NB Request (for transfer to the NBE) before itself generating an NB Authorisation
signifying a NB Decline (due to system time-out) to be sent to the relevant automated Counter
Position.

Maximum Counter Wait Period:
The period that an automated Counter Position shall wait for a corresponding NB Authorisation
after generating a NB Request before itself Declining that Banking Transaction due to system.
‘time-out.

MCWP:
Maximum Counter Wait Period.

Merchant Acquirer:
‘A company providing facilities to handle EFTPOS on line authorisations and signed vouchers,
linking as necessary with Outlets and banks etc.

Message:
A set of electronic data for transportation from one computer system to another.

Method of Payment:
The form of payment recorded against a Transaction involving a Customer.

Migration Specification:
The CCD entitled “Provision of In-Office Migration Services”.

Minimum Acceptable Threshold:
In respect of a Service Level, the agreed minimum level of Service that the Contractor must
provide as stated in the relevant Service Level Schedule.

MIS:
Management Information Systems.

MSU Day:
0800 to 1730, Monday to Friday (inclusive), excluding English bank holidays.

NAO:
National Audit Office.

National Roll Out:
Roll Out of the Core System to all Outlets scheduled to be installed under the Roll Out
Programme (as amended from time to time through the Change Control Procedure).

NB Acceptance Date

The date that NBS Acceptance occurs in accordance with paragraph 3.1 of Schedule NO2.

NB Additional Time:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 5.9.2 of Schedule NO1;

NB Authorisation:
An authorisation message transmitted on-line from the NBE or the NB Authorisation Agent in
response to a NB Request, stating whether that NB Request has been approved or Declined.

NB Authorisation Agent:
The software application to be installed in each Data Centre and used to process NB Requests
and NB Authorisations transmitted between the Outlet NB System elements and the NBE.

Interpretation Page 14 of 32 Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

NB Confirmation:
‘A confirmation message written to record the outcome of a Banking Transaction.

NB Core Hours:
0800 to 1730 Monday to Friday (inclusive), and 0800 to 1300 Saturday, excluding English bank
holidays.

NB Counter Application:
The application software that contains the business logic controlling the dialogue with Users of
the NBS.

NB Customer Verification:
The process by which the association of a Customer with a NB Token is to be checked, as
described in paragraph 5.8.2 of Schedule NO1.

NB Decline:
‘A refusal by the NB System or Counter Clerk to proceed with a Banking Transaction after a NB
Request is generated or an instruction contained in an Authorisation to refuse a Banking
Transaction received via NBE .”Declined” and “Declining” shall be construed accordingly.

NB Event:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 18.2.1 of Schedule A12.

NB Financial Transaction:
‘A Banking Transaction involving a deposit or withdrawal of monies.

NB Full E2E Testing Stage:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 1.4 of Annex I to Schedule NO2.

NB Go Live:
The point at which, following deployment of the NBS software in each Outlet, the NBS is
initiated for live operational use in all Outlets through release of the required Reference Data.

NB High Severity:

‘The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 4.4.2 of Schedule NO2 in respect of NBS Acceptance
Incidents and NBS Progress Incidents.

NB Initial Period:

The period commencing on the date of signature of the NBS CCN and expiring 6 calendar
months after the beginning of the earlier of:

(@) the first calendar month in which two million Banking Transactions are undertaken
using the NBS; and

(6) the calendar month in which the cumulative number of Banking Transactions
undertaken using the NBS exceeds five million.

NB Low Severity:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 4.4.2 of Schedule NO2 in respect of NBS Acceptance
Incidents and NBS Progress Incidents.

NB Medium Severity:
‘The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 4.4.2 of Schedule NO2 in respect of NBS Acceptance
Incidents and NBS Progress Incidents.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 15 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

NB Monthly Operating Fee:
The total Charge due each month (net of any applicable discount) for NBS operating services
and operating the PIN Pad Implementation Service, as set out in Annex 6 to Schedule A12.

NB Pilot (Soft Launch):
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 1.8 of Annex I to Schedule NO2.

NB/PIN Pad Services:
The NBS and the PIN Pad Implementation Service together, but not either of them separately.

NB PPD:
The PPD for the NBS defined in paragraph 5.4.1 of Schedule NOL.

NB Priority Exception:
‘A Banking Transaction for which:

(a) no Disputed Banking Transaction Notice has been received by the Contractor and
which persists in system state category number 4 or 12 as set out in the CCD entitled
“Network Banking End to End Reconciliation Reporting” (CS/SPE/011) on the
second MSU Day following the day of receipt by the DRSH of the corresponding C4
Confirmation or D Message (as applicable); or

0) a Disputed Banking Transaction Notice has been received by the Contractor and
which is within or subsequently falls within the system state category number 4 or 12
as sel out in the CCD entitled “Network Banking End to End Reconciliation
Reporting” (CS/SPE/01)

NB Project Plan:
The plan for the development and implementation of the NBS described in paragraph 1 of
Schedule NO4.

NB Rate Reduction Date:

The date referred to in paragraph 18.2.2 of Schedule A12 upon which the Contractor's rates for NB
T&M Work may be reduced by 50% pursuant to paragraph 18.3 of Schedule A12.

NB Receipt:
‘A paper receipt issued during a Banking Transaction either as a record of that Banking
Transaction or as part of the process of carrying out that Banking Transaction.

NB Request:
A priority request message generated for transmission on-line from an Outlet to a Bank (via the
NBE) in order to undertake a Banking Transaction for a Customer.

NB Retention Pot:
‘A fund to which sums which are retained by POCL (from payments due to the Contractor) are to
be allocated in accordance with paragraph 18.2.3 of Schedule A12 and released in accordance
with paragraph 18.2.4 of Schedule A12.

NB Settlement Date:
The date on which a Banking Transaction is committed for settlement by a Bank or, in the
absence of such a date being set by that Bank, the default posting date set by the NBE.

NB System:
The elements of the POCL Service Infrastructure, including WebRiposte and the NB Counter
Application which are to be developed, modified and/or used pursuant to Clause 413 to support
operational use of the NBS.

Interpretation ~ Page 16 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521

[Commented [ABF22]: cons9aa )

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

NB Target Date:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 18.2.2 of Schedule A12.

NB T&M Budget:
The Contractor's estimate of the resource and time required to complete (as the context requires)
a NB T&M Work task at Level 2 or Level 3 in the NB Project Plan or a group of such tasks
taken together, from which the budgeted amounts and hours for each such task, or tasks taken
together may be derived,

NB T&M Work:
The work of designing, developing and testing the NBS (including, without limitation, the work,
if any, of closing down Cancelled Tasks in accordance with Schedule N04) which is to be
charged for by the Contractor on a time and materials basis in accordance with paragraph 18.1
of Schedule A12.

NB Token:
‘A Token supported by the NBS, as described in paragraph 5.1.1 of Schedule NOL

NB Token Validation:
The process by which the validity of a NB Token presented by a Customer to a Counter Clerk is
to be checked, as described in paragraph 5.8.1 of Schedule NO1.

NBE:
Network Banking Engine.

NBE Network:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 2.2.4(b) of Schedule NO8.

NBS:
Network Banking Service.

NBS Acceptance:
Acceptance of the NBS in accordance with paragraph 3.1 of Schedule N02.

NBS Acceptance Criteria:
The criteria for acceptance of the NBS and the PIN Pads set out in the CCD entitled “NBS
Acceptance Criteria”.

NBS Acceptance Incident:
Any incident within the following categories:

@) a failure to meet NBS Acceptance Criteria;

(>) _a failure of the Existing Services to be performed in accordance with the applicable
provisions of this Codified Agreement;

© a lack of capability to achieve Service Levels; or

(4) the occurrence of certain functions, activities or behaviour in conflict with the
Codified Agreement,

each as specified in paragraph 4 of Schedule NO2, which occurs as a result of the introduction of
the NBS.

NBS Acceptance Procedure:
The procedure described in Schedule N02 for acceptance of the NBS.

Interpretation Page 17 of 32 ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
POL00337521

POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A0l RESTRICTED CONTRACTS
NBS Default:
A Default by the Contractor exclusively in relation to the NB/PIN Pad Services, the
NBS or the PIN Pad Implementation Service.
NBS Deployment:
The download of the NBS software to an Outlet in readiness for NB Go Live.
NBS Stage Progression:
The progression from:
(a) _ the NBS Testing Stage to the NB Full E2E Testing Stage; or
(>) _ the NB Full E2E Testing Stage to the NB Pilot (Soft Launch) phase,
as applicable, in accordance with Schedule N02.
NBS Termination Charge:
The NBS and PIN Pad Implementation Service termination charge calculated in accordance with
paragraph 3 of Schedule N06 of this Codified Agreement.
NBS Testing Stage:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 1.1 of Annex 1 to Schedule NO2.
NBS Tests:
The tests described in paragraph 3.1 of Annex 1 to Schedule NO2.
NBS Transfer Payment:
The sum payable pursuant to Clause 903 or Clause 905 of this Codified Agreement as defined in
paragraph 4,3 of Schedule NO6.
NBS
The network business support centre operated by POCL
NCC:
The National Computing Centre Ltd., Manchester. (Commented [ABF23]: cows? )
Network Banking CCNs:
CCN817, CCN865a, CCN907, CCN909a, CCN9 14a, CCN928b, CCN932, CCN934,
CCN933, CCN936b, CCN947, CCN959,CCN967, CCN970a, CCN971 and CCN976a.
Network Banking Engine:
‘A central third party computer system (contracted for by POCL) which constitutes the middle
tier of End to End Banking and which, inter alia, connects the Data Centres to LINK and certain
Bank computer systems.
Network Banking Service:
The obligations of the Contractor pursuant to Clause 413 of this Codified Agreement.
Network Banking Transfer Service:
The service as set out in Schedule NO6.
New Requirements Board:
The body referred to as such in the Management Table in the Annex to Schedule A04. ( Commented [ABF24]: CcNé17 }

Interpretation ~ oe Page 18 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

NINO:
‘A National Insurance Number issued to any natural person.

Non-value Stock:
Stock which has no intrinsic value but for which records are maintained of the levels on hand.

NR Completion Date:
The date by which Roll Out of the Core System shall have been completed to 99 per cent. of all
Outlets scheduled to be installed under the Roll Out Programme (as amended from time to time
through the Change Control Procedure).

N Schedules:
Schedules NO1, N02, NO3, N04, NOS, N06, NO8 and NOS.

OBCS:
Order Book Control Service (q.v.).

OBCS Stop Lists:
A list of order books on which action needs to be taken.

Operational Business Change:
‘As the context requires, the services set out or referred to in the Operational Business Change
Catalogue or the services set out in the CCD entitled “JCL Pathway/ PON Interface Agreement
‘for Operational Business Change ~ Product” (CS/PRD/058)

Operational Business Change Catalogue:
The CCD entitled “Operational Business Change Catalogue” which sets out processes and
prices for operational changes at Outlets.

Operational Services
The POCL Infrastructure Services, the Automated Payment Service, EPOSS, the Contingency
Services, OBCS, LFS and any other relevant Optional POCL Services,

Operational Trial:
The operational trial of the Core System to be performed pursuant to Clause 402 of this Codified
Agreement.

Operational Trial Criteria:
The acceptance criteria for the Operational Trial, as set out in Schedule L3 of this Codified
Agreement

Operational Trial Period:
The period for performance of the Operational Trial Procedure, ending on the Operational Trial
‘Acceptance Date.

Operational Trial Procedure:
The Acceptance Test procedure for the Operational Trial System, as described in Schedule ALL
of this Codified Agreement.

Operational Trial System:
The trial system to be delivered for testing under the Operational Trial Procedure, as described
in Schedule LI of this Codified Agreement, to enable the functionality and performance of the
POCL Service Infrastructure and the Core System to be tested.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 19 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
POL00337521

POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

OPS:
The Office Platform Service described in Schedule G1 of this Codified Agreement and supplied
by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.3 of this Codified Agreement.

Optional POCL Service or Optional POL Service: (Commented [JDC25}: conse1

Any POCL Service to be supplied pursuant to Clause 202 of this Codified Agreement.

Optional Products:
Any Products to be supplied pursuant to Clause 206 of this Codified Agreement.

Order Book Control Service:
The order book control service supplied by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.4,

Other Authorised Location:
A site, other than an Outlet, where it may be necessary to install and use elements of the POCL
Service Infrastructure, e.g. training sites, county shows, and exhibitions.

Other Stock:
All Stock other than Retail Stock, Security Stock and Value Stock, including leaflets, forms and
various general consumables and supplies.

Out of Hours Support:
Support provided outside POCL Core Day.

Outlet:
‘A post office or any other location where POCL (whether directly or by means of Agents)
transacts business with Customers.

Outlet Balance:
The aggregate balance across all the Stock Units in an Outlet.

Outlet Manager:
The person who has the necessary authority within Outlets through whom arrangements for
installation and implementation of the POCL Service Infrastructure and POCL Services at each
Outlet can be made,

PAN:
The primary account number (part of the TIN) associated with a NB Token.

‘Any holding company (as defined in Section 736 of the Companies Act 1985),

Parent Outlets:
Larger Outlets which perform the accounting work for Satellite Outlets.

Pathway

the Contractor (v) ‘(Commented [J0C26}: ccnssa

Paypole:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 1 of Schedule G12.

person:
Includes a partnership, a corporation or association (whether incorporated or unincorporated), as
well as a natural person,

Interpretation ~ Page 20 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 30/1 ‘8 OURE FH 22 HAS

POL00337521

POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS
Personal Data:
All data which are defined as personal data in the Data Protection Act 1998 and processed by
the Contractor under this Codified Agreement.
Pr
Personal Identification Number.
PIN Pad:
A device used by a Customer to enter a PIN for the purposes of NB Customer Verification,
PIN Pad Deployment:
Deployment of PIN Pads in accordance with Schedule G12.
PIN Pad Implementation Service:
The obligations of the Contractor pursuant to Clause 415 of this Codified Agreement.
PIVOT:
The existing POCL MIS system which provides, inter alia, reports of numbers of transactions by
Outlet.
POCL:
Pou (Commented [NS27}:_consé1 )
POCL Agreement:
The agreement between POCL and the Contractor dated 15th May, 1996 as referred to in Recital
(b) to this Codified Agreement.
POCL Application Services or POL Application ServicesI: __—(Commented [NS28}:_ consi )

The Automated Payment Service and OBCS.

POCL Automated Payments Generic Rules or POL Automated Payments Generic Rules: Commented [ABF29]: Page: 12
‘A document describing generic rules for APS. (CCN323a

(Commented [NS30]: consi
(Commented [NS31]: const

POCL Client Services or POL Client Services:
The services to be performed by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 203 of this Codified
Agreement.

POCL Consumables or POL Consumables: _-{ Commented [NS32}:_consa1 )
The consumables to be supplied pursuant to Clause 208 of this Codified Agreement, as listed in
Schedule B04 of this Codified Agreement,

POCL Core Day or POL Core Day: _—-(Commented [NS33}:_cone21 )
08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Saturday inclusive, excluding bank holidays.

POCL Data or POL Data:
Means all data, information, text, drawings, diagrams, images (including, but not limited to
logos), or sounds which are embodied in any electronic or tangible medium, and which are

— {Commented [NS34];_ccns41 j

supplied or in respect of which access is granted to the Contractor by POCL pursuant to this Commented [GRW35}: Page: 12
Codified Agreement, or which the Contractor is required to generate for POCL under this ccNs25

Codified Agreement, but excludes the Service Architecture Design Document and

Documentation.

POCL Infrastructure Services or POL Infrastructure Services:
The POCL Infrastructure Services to be performed by the Contractor pursuant to Clause 405.3
of this Codified Agreement.

‘(Commented [NS36]:_cowsa1 J

Interpretation ~ Page 21 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 30/1 0s

POL00337521

POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE AOI RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

POCL Interface or POL Interfa _—-(Commented [NS37}:_ const )
An interface between a Service or Services and a POCL system or systems.

POCL Outlet Accounting Period or POL Outlet Accounting Period: _— (Commented [NS38]:_ cons <1 )
The shortest normal accounting period applying within an Outlet, normally a week and running
Thursday through Wednesday, but subject to variation at financial year end and to revision. It
may be merged by agreement in individual Outlets, e.g. to enable sub-postmaster holidays.

POCL Premises or POL Premises: _—(Commented [NS39}:_cowséi i}
All post offices, sub-post offices, and other premises of POCL from time to time.

POCL Product or POL Product: _ (Commented [NS40}: cows )
‘An item, provided by POCL, for sale from Stock - or characterising a service provided - in an
Outlet.

POCL RDS:
RDS.

POCL Reference Data System or POL Reference Data System: _—(Commented [NS41}:_consai )
The POCL-run system that maintains the POCL-originated Reference Data for the POCL
Services.

POCL Responsibilities or POL Responsibilities! _— (Commented INS42}:_consai }
The responsibilities of POCL set out or referred to in Schedules A16, E3, F3 G5, 13, K3, G12,
and the N Schedules of this Codified Agreement.

POCL’s Agent or POL’s Agent: {Commented [NS43]:_coNa41 )
‘Any person(s) or organisation(s) authorised to act on behalf of POCL.

POCL’s Representative or POL’s Representative: (Commented [NS44]: const J
The person so notified to the Contractor by POCL.

POCL Service Architecture or POL Service Architecture: (Commented INS45]:_ccNs41 i}
The architecture of the Operational Services, the POCL Service Infrastructure and the POCL
Service Environment.

POCL Service Environment or POL Service Environment: (Commented [NS46}: cowo41 )
POCL’s computer, telecommunication and business operating systems and services, as described
in Schedule 1 of this Codified Agreement, that are to be integrated with the POCL Service
Infrastructure and the Operational Services to form the POCL Service Architecture.

POCL Service Infrastructure or POL Service Infrastructure: ‘(Commented INS47}: cosa. )

‘The Hardware and the Software and all other electronic, computer and telecommunications
equipment (excluding Paypoles) which form the infrastructure to be utilised by the Contractor
for the provision of the POCL Services, but does not include the POCL Service Environment.

POCL Services, POL Services, or Services:

Commented [NS48]:

The Core System Services, the Network Banking Service, Optional POCL Services, POCL
Client Services, Additional POCL Services, PIN Pad Implementation Service and all other
obligations of the Contractor under this Codified Agreement.

POCL Transferred Assets:
The assets to be transferred by POCL to the Contractor pursuant to Clause 401 of this Codified
Agreement, as listed in Schedule A09 of this Codified Agreement.

Interpretation ~ Page 22 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521

POL00337521

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

POL:
Post Office Limited (known as Post Office Counters Limited prior to 1 October 2001) or such

other subsidiary of Consignia ple as may be nominated from time to time to take over the rights
and obligations of Post Office Limited under this Codified I greement-

(Commented [NS49]: consi

Pol

Post Office Network (q.v.) — [Commented [ABF50]: ccNe59

Posting Date:
NB Settlement Date.

Postmaster’s Daily Record (PDR):
Report forms used to summarise Girobank Transactions that are sent to the Client. There are
currently forms for deposits and withdrawals in manual and automated offices, and a mixed
(cash / cheque) deposit version in ECCO+ offices only.

Post Office

Consignia ple (qv) _—(Commented [NS51]: consi
Post Office Group:

Consignia Group (qv) (Commented [NS52}:_ cows
Post Office Network:

Where the term Post Office Network is used in documents it refers to a former business unit
within Post Office Counters Limited and, for the purposes of those documents only, shall have

the same meaning as POCL, —(Commented [NS53]:_ cows

PostShop: [Commented [ABF54]: ccN6s9

A separate retail unit within a post office operated directly by POCL.

PPDs:

The related set of Processes and Procedures Description documents as described in the
Introduction Processes and Procedures Description” document for the appropriate Release.

(ea INS55}: con796

Products:
Any products to be supplied under this Codified Agreement, excluding Paypoles and including,
where appropriate, the Core System Products and any Optional Produets and Additional
Products and any POCL Consumables.

Project Assets:
‘The assets referred to as such in Clause 903.1.

Project Plan:
The plan for the implementation of the POCL Service Infrastructure and the Operational
Services as set out in Schedule B09 and the Roll Out Programme.

Property:
Tangible property (including without limitation buildings and land) but excluding the POCL
Service Infrastructure and any part thereof before it has been accepted in accordance with this
Codified Agreement.

Proposal:
The Contractor's Proposal, in response to the Statement of Service Requirements. The Proposal
has been superseded by the Schedules to this Codified Agreement.

Interpretation ~ Page 23 of 32 Version 5.0

Last saved 30/10/2002 11:58:0030440/2002-14-05
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

RAB:
Release Authorisation Board (q.v.).

RACOCI Model
The Request, Authorisation and Confirmations model of End to End Banking Transaction flows
involving, inter alia, as the particular circumstances may permit, NB Requests being issued from
Counter Positions, NB Authorisations being issued by the NBE and NB Confirmations being
issued from Counter Positions.

Rate Shop:
Where a Customer purchases Stock by value rather than by volume, i.e. by a number of items of
Stock purchased for a given sum.

RDMC:
The Contractor's Reference Data Management Centre.

RDS:
POCL Reference Data System.

Records:
Full and accurate records relating to the performance of the POCL Services.

Recovery:
The act of re-establishing a Service following a Service Failure.

Reference Data:
A set of parameters and relationships controlling the operation of POCL Services.

Refund:
‘A repayment of money to a Customer, by means of a Reversal.

Related Agreements:
The Authorities’ Agreement, the DSS Agreement and the POCL Agreement, each as referred to
in Recital (b) of this Codified Agreement.

Release:
A documented collection of software and/or data provided by the Contractor to deliver a POCL
Service or POCL Services.

Release Authorisation Board:
The body referred to as such in the Management Table in the annex to Schedule A04.

Release Contents Description
ACCD which defines the scope of a Release by reference to the SADD.

Remittance:

‘A consignment to or from an Outlet of cash, Stock, or other value items to be brought to account,

Report:
‘A physical document; or, information held electronically in such a way that it can be processed
readily to produce a physical document.

Representative:
‘A representative of POCL or the Contractor as appropriate.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 24 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Retail Price Index:
The “all items” index currently appearing at table 18.1 of the Office of National Statistics
publication “Monthly Digest of Statistics” and any subsequent relocation thereof, or the same
index in any other Government publication if the aforementioned ceases to be published.

Retail Stock:
Items sold in Outlets through POCL's retail accounting scheme.

Reversal:
A Transaction which nullifies a previous Transaction,

Roll Out:
The implementation of the POCL Service Infrastructure and/or a POCL Service (other than the
Network Banking Service, PIN Pad Implementation Service and/or PIN Pad Deployment) in
Outlets.

Roll-Out, Rollout, roll-out or rollout:
Roll Out (q.v.).

Roll Out Payment:
The sum of £548 million to be paid to the Contractor subject to and in accordance with Part A of
Schedule A12 and consisting of the following elements:

£280 million in respect of the right to use the Core System and (if and when approved for
release by the Release Authorisation Board) CSR4;

£120 million in respect of the use of hardware (and software associated therewith) during
the term of this Agreement;

£80 million in respect of installation, training and modification costs in respect of the
POCL Service Infrastructure and POCL Services; and

£68 million in respect of operating and maintenance costs incurred prior to 1 April, 2001.

Roll Out Programme
The programme set out in Annex I to Schedule Al2 (Parts A and B).

RPI:
Retail Price Index (q.¥.).

SADD:
Service Architecture Design Document (q.v

SAP/ADS:
SAPADS (q..).

SAPADS:
SAP Advanced Distribution System.

Satellite Outlet:
An Outlet which handles insufficient Transactions to justify production of a separate Cash
Account.

Security Stock:

Stock products which have no cash account value until sold, any item the loss of which would
result in loss to POCL.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 25 of 32 7 ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 30/10) 0030402002105

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Sensitive Card Data:
The meaning ascribed to it in paragraph 10.6.2(a) of Schedule NO1.

Service Architecture Design Document:
The document showing the POCL Service Architecture developed pursuant to Clause 403.7, as
amended from time to time to reflect Optional and Additional Products and POCL Services
supplied and performed under this Codified Agreement.

ice Boundary:
The interface or interfaces at which responsibility for processing or otherwise handling Banking
Transaction data, Reference Data or Data Files or any other data, message, component or
product of the NBS passes, in accordance with the applicable AIS and/or TIS between the
Contractor, POCL and/or a third party.

Service Break:
The duration of a Service Failure.

Service Credit:
Payment, discount or credit given by the Contractor to POCL resulting from delay in provision
of POCL Services, or from POCL Services’ failure to meet the required Service Levels.

Service Definition Schedules:
Schedules El, Fl, Gl, H1, K1 and N1 of this Codified Agreement.

Service Failure:
‘An interruption of a POCL Service that has not been approved by POCL.

Service Level:
‘A quantified and measurable standard, required for a specified POCL Service.

Service Level Agreement:
See Service Level.

Service Level Measurement Period:
The period over which the Contractor shall report service performance against Service Levels
Each Service Level Measurement Period shall be a period of three months ending on February,
May, August and November in each Year, with the final Service Level Measurement Period
commencing on Ist March, 2005 and ending on 31st March, 2005.

Level Schedules:
Schedules B10, E08, FO8, G10, HO8, K08 and NO8 of this Codified Agreement.

ice Management Report:
The Working Document (known to the parties as the “service review book”) used by the
Contractor to report performance of the POCL Services against Service Levels and associated
volumes, the format of which is agreed by the parties at meetings of the Service Review Board.

Service Manager:
The person appointed by the Contractor to manage the provision of a POCL Service.

Service Ready-for-use Date:
The date on which a POCL Service, which has achieved Acceptance, is first made available by
the Contractor for use by Users.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 26 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Service Review Board
The body referred to as such in the Management Table in the Annex to Schedule A04,

‘ice Review Meeting:
‘A meeting of the Service Review Board.

Service RFU Date:
Service Ready-for-use Date (q.v.)

Services:
POCL Services.

Session Mobil
A facility which allows a User logged on at an automated Counter Position workstation to log on
to another such workstation, thereby transferring his User session and automatically logging the
User out of the first workstation.

Severity Code:
‘A code assigned to an Incident by the Help Desk, indicating the seriousness of the Incident’s
effect, and used to determine priority for resolution.

Silver 24 Hour Service Outlet:
An Outlet that seeks to use a Fixed Connection 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.

Silver Daytime Service Outlet:
‘An Outlet that seeks to use a:
(Fixed Connection in the periods 08:00 to 17:30 Monday to Friday and 08:00 to 13:00
Saturday; and

(ii) Dialled Connection outside those periods.

Silver Part Time Service Outk
‘An Outlet which seeks to use a:
() Fixed Connection in the periods 08:30 to 10:30 Monday, 08:30 to 09:30 Tuesday and
08:30 to 09:30 Thursday; or
(ii) Fixed Connection from 08:30 to 12:30 Saturday; and (in both cases)
(iii) Dialled Connection outside those periods.

At
Service Level Agreement (q.v.).

Smart Key:
‘A type of Token (as defined in relation to the Automated Payment Service) which uses on-board
integrated circuit technology.

Smart Token:
A type of Token (as defined in relation to the Automated Payment Service) which uses on-board
integrated circuit technology.

SM
System Management Service (q..).

Software:
The Contractor's Software, the Specially Written Software, Internal Code, the Third Party
Software and any other software provided under this Codified Agreement,

Interpretation ~ Page 27 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 3 :8:0030402002 1:05.

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

Source Code:
Software in eye-readable form and in such form that it can be compiled or interpreted into
equivalent object code together with all technical information and documentation necessary for
the use, reproduction, modification and enhancement of such software.

Specially Written Software:
‘Any software identified as such in Schedule BOI of this Codified Agreement and written by or
on behalf of the Contractor for POCL and supplied by the Contractor hereunder pursuant to
Clause 204 of this Codified Agreement or as an Optional Product or Additional Product.

SPM:
Simple Payment Module,

Stock:
Items held in Outlets and classified as Retail Stock, Security Stock, Value Stock, and Other
Stock.

Stock Item:
A unit of Stock which can be ordered separately.

Stock Unit:
An individual unit of accountability, mandatory within a main (branch) post office and optional
within a sub post office, for which an individual (or a group of individuals) is accountable. It
may contain: (i) Transaction Vouchers for a designated period, (ii) Value Stock, and/or
(iii) cash.

sub-contractor:
‘A person to whom any obligations of the Contractor expressly specified in this Codified
Agreement are delegated in accordance with the provisions of this Codified Agreement but shall
not (for the avoidance of doubt) include any supplier of products or services which are not
expressly specified as obligations of the Contractor under this Codified Agreement and related
expressions shall be construed accordingly.

subsidiary company:
The meaning ascribed thereto in Section 736 of the Companies Act 1985.

Suspense Account:
In Outlet terms, the value of Transactions that are accounted for in the unclaimed payments or
uncharged receipts tables of the Cash Account. These items will subsequently be cleared by
posting to an appropriate line of the Cash Account or by local settlement.

System Management Service:
The System Management Service provided by the Contractor as part of the POCL Infrastructure
Services pursuant to Clause 405.3 of this Codified Agreement.

Team Work:
A method of working in which Users share a Stock Unit or Tills within a Stock Unit, either at
the same time or in sequence. The team then becomes accountable for the Stock Unit or Till.

Technical Interface Specification:
A CCD describing the technical detail of an interface.

Interpretation ~ Page 28 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521

Commented [ABF56]: Page: 17
CCN411a

CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

termination:
Termination of this Codified Agreement includes its expiry or early termination of in accordance
with the provisions hereof, and related expressions shall be construed accordingly.

Termination Charge:
The termination charge calculated in accordance with Schedule AO7 of this Codified
Agreement.

Termination Review Threshold:
Fora POCL Service, is the Service Level stated in the relevant Service Level Schedule below
which POCL’s operations are seriously compromised, so that POCL shall have the right to
terminate this Codified Agreement.

Third Party Software:
Any software identified as such in Schedule B01 of this Codified Agreement.

Third Party Software Owner:
The ultimate licensor of any Third Party Software.

Till:
A part or whole of a Stock Unit depending upon whether or not that Stock Unit is the sole
charge of one individual or is shared between several.

TIP:
The Transaction Information Processing system developed and operated by POCL.

TIP Gateway:
The Contractor's PC on POCL premises used for transmission of Transaction data to TIP.

TIS:
Technical Interface Specification (q.v.).

TMs:
The Transaction Management Service provided by the Contractor as part of the POCL
Infrastructure Services pursuant to Clause 405.3 of this Codified Agreement.

‘TMS Agent:
Part of the POCL Service Infrastructure that accesses TMS held data.

Token:
‘A magnetic stripe card, smart card, smart key, or other physical device, bearing information
about a Customer.

Token Technology Specification:
‘A document specifying the technology used by a particular APS Token.

TPS Agent:
The software application installed in each Data Centre for processing EPOSS Transaction data
including C1 Confirmations.

TPS Host:
The server in each Data Centre used for processing and storing EPOSS Transaction data.

Interpretation ° 7: Page 29 of 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

‘Transaction:
‘A recorded and auditable instance of business activity, involving service provision or Stock
‘movement across organisational or service boundaries.

Transaction Committal:
The point at which a Transaction is irreversibly recorded in the audit trail.

Transaction Identification (Id):
‘A means of uniquely identifying a Transaction.

Transaction Session:
A set of contiguous Transactions of the same type.

Transaction Voucher:
‘A document used by POCL as evidence of a Transaction; including as an example, and without
limitation, a telephone bill.

Transfer:
(i) In the context of transfer of post office stock or money, the transfer of Value Stock, and/or
money, either between Stock Units within an Outlet, or between Outlets; and (ii) in the context
of transfer to the Contractor, the transfer to the Contractor pursuant to Clause 401 of this
Codified Agreement.

Transfer Date:
The date specified in Schedule A09 of this Codified Agreement.

‘Transfer Payment:
The sum payable pursuant to Clause 903 of this Codified Agreement, as defined in paragraph
4.3 of Schedule A07.

‘Transfer Services
The services set out in Schedule A07.

Use:
The right of POCL in connection with the POCL Services and for no other purposes to load,
execute, store, transmit, display, copy (for the purposes of loading, execution, storage,
transmission or display) or otherwise to utilise the Software for purposes of processing POCL
Data. To the extent permitted by law, such right of Use shall not include the right to reverse
assemble, reverse compile, decode or otherwise translate the Software.

User:
A person authorised by POCL to use a POCL Service.

Value Stock:
Stock products which have a “stock value” shown on the Cash Account,

VAT Receipt:
A receipt for VAT purposes designed as required by HM Customs and Excise.

Void Transaction:
A Transaction which is cancelled before Transaction Committal.

WAN:
Wide Area Network.
WebRiposte:

Interpretation ° 7: Page 30 0f 32 ~~ ~~ Version 5.0
Last saved 34 $:002040-20021-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
CODIFIED AGREEMENT SCHEDULE A01 RESTRICTED CONTRACTS

The Software referred to as such and identified in Schedule BOL.

Working Day:
For an individual post office means any day on which that office is open for normal business.

Working Document:
“Working Document” means any document designated as a Working Document and any other
document other than the Codified Agreement, Change Control Notes executed by both parties,
Contract Controlled Documents and Contract Referenced Documents. Working Documents are
without prejudice to any of the parties and nothing contained therein shall be deemed or
construed as affecting existing contractual obligations or creating new contractual obligations
between any of the parties.

Working Hours:
For an individual post office means the hours during which that office is open for normal
business

Year:
A period of twelve (12) months commencing on 15 May, 1999 and on each anniversary of such
date thereafier, or in the event of termination hereof, the period from the immediately preceding
such anniversary or (if there has been no such anniversary) the date of execution hereof to the
date of termination hereof.

Interpretation ~ Page 31 0f 32 Version 5.0

Last saved 30/10/2002 11:58:0030440/2002-14-05

POL00337521
POL00337521
