POL00044024
POL00044024
SI
POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL

Name: 1. Anne NIELD
2. Angela SEFTON

Rank: 1. Manager
2. Sub office assistant

Branch: Fazakerley Branch Code 214 420
Enquiry POLTD/1112/0208
Reference

Security Operations
Casework Team
Post Office Ltd

Ms Anne NIELD is the appointed manager of above branch and Mrs Angela SEFTON is the sub
office assistant at the above branch. They both appeared at Liverpool Crown Court on Friday 3
May 2013 for sentence.

They were both due to stand trial on Monday 15" April 2013 but both had previously pleaded
guilty to false accounting at Liverpool Crown Court on Thursday 14" April 2013 after a
Goodyear hearing.

The Magistrate adjourned the case for pre sentence reports and the matter was passed to
Truro Crown Court for sentence on 20" November 2012.

Mr John Gibson represented Post Office Ltd on 11" April 2013 and Ms Charlotte ATHERTON
defended Ann NIELD and Ms Kate MORLEY defended Angela SEFTON. HHJ Andrew HATTON
presided over matters.

After hearing both arguments HHJ HATTON ruled that the maximum sentence he would be
imposing was one of a suspended sentence. HHJ HATTON allowed Mr GIBSON to open as he
would not be available on the date of sentence.

Mr GIBSON told the court that the discrepancies where noticed by a trustee of the charity and
the charity's bookkeepers carried out an investigation and found £34,000 had not been credited
to their account. A Post Office Ltd Security Manager was carrying out an investigation when he
received a letter saying that they had held back deposit and 40 deposit slips were found behind
the counter.

HHJ HATTON adjourned the case until the 3 May 2013 for pre sentence reports.

POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL
POL00044024
POL00044024

POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL
On 3 May 2013, Miss Andrea FITZGERALD represented Post Office Ltd and Ms ATHERTON and
Ms MORLEY again represented Anne NIELD and Angela SEFTON. HHJ Hatton again presided
over proceedings.

Ms MORLEY opened first on behalf of SEFTON and said that her client blamed the Horizon
system that had caused problems for other staff, the system was not fool proof and that
Charles MCLAUGHLIN had represented others. She had made up the shortfall by using credit
cards and wages and this was not the first time it had happened, there was a £4,000 shortage
and was informed by the sub postmaster that any shortfalls would fall on their shoulders. This
led to the holding back of the deposit slips and burying their heads in the sand. Her health had
suffered and she had been brought to financial ruin and become bankrupt, her marriage had
broken down and her reputation was in tatters with the prospect of any future employment
being nil.

Ms ATHERTON on behalf of NIELD agreed that it passes the custody threshold and the amount
given in relation to the guilty plea. She had worked at the Post Office for 25 years with the first
17 years having no problems. The difference between the Prosecution and the Defence is that
the Prosecution say they have taken the money, The Defence say they have covered up the
money but they have had the benefit of the £34,000. Her client maintained that it was false
accounting and not theft. She was made bankrupt in April 2012 and is not considered fit to
work due to mental health. As the losses built up they adopted an ostrich syndrome and she
had been brought to her knees y the prosecution.

On hearing the facts of the case and the mitigation advanced on behalf of the defendants HHJ
HATTON said he was dealing with two frightened women who appeared before him on 11 April
2013 seeking clarification of the maximum sentence and they then entered guilty pleas.
£34,000 had gone missing and together you both had false accounted to cover it up

It was the prosecution case that you had benefited by it and a jury would not be able to indicate
theft but that would be left up to him.

The Horizon system had been criticised and he was not in a position to comment on that. But
he was confident that if there were any difficulties with the Horizon system, the Post Office is a
large organisation and they would have put something in place to overcome any difficulties.

He further said that they had both been remorseful since the confession letter, had entered
guilty pleas and suffered difficulties in health, their personal lives and both had been made
bankrupt, are unemployed at the ages of 57 and 60. This was entirely your own doing over a
considerable amount of time and he has taken into account the points raised in mitigation and
the pre sentence reports.

HHJ HATTON sentenced Anne NIELD to 5 months custodial suspended for 12 months, 12
months supervision order and 20 sessions as the Women’s Turn Around Project.

POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL
POL00044024
POL00044024

POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL
HHJ HATTON said that Angela SEFTON was not of previous good character and sentenced her
to 6 months custodial suspended for 12 months, 12 months supervision order and 20 sessions
as the Women’s Turn Around Project.

No costs or compensation was ordered, HHJ HATTON said both of you are not in any position
to contribute to costs. The Post Office will have to bear an even greater burden.

The sub postmaster is currently repaying the outstanding debt from his remuneration.

These papers are sent so that the outcome can be noted and the papers filed away in due
course.

S Bradshaw

Security Manager

Post Office Ltd Security Team.
10 May 2013

POST OFFICE LTD - CONFIDENTIAL
