POL00423676
POL00423676

Our Code

The Royal Mail Group values and business
standards that we all must live by

POL00423676
POL00423676

Statement from the CEO

Royal Mail Group employees make decisions
every day that affect one another, our
customers and the organisation. The actions we
choose to take as individuals reflect on us all
and influence how others perceive our
company.

Royal Mail Group has been the United
Kingdom’s most trusted provider of postal
services for many years, and has a unique
history. As we look to the future, we know that
each of us, through our actions, has the power
to improve our workplace, build the trust of our
customers, and enhance our reputation.

Our Code, which is based on our Corporate
Values, is one of our most important
documents, It defines the business standards
to which we should all hold ourselves
accountable.

So, please read the Code carefully, and follow
it. And if you have questions, comments or
concerns, please don't be silent- you will find
information throughout the document on where
to go for help.

Moya Greene
Chief Executive

GRO

Date

“Each of us has
the power to
improve our
workplace”

“Our Code
defines the
business
standards to
which we
hold
ourselves
accountable”

POL00423676
POL00423676

What is the Royal Mail Code?

The Royal Mail Code is a set of guidelines outlining the standards of
conduct that we expect from everyone at Royal Mail Group.

It is about doing the right thing: following the law, acting honourably and
treating others with respect.

In this booklet, you will read about the values, policies and behaviours that
are required to make Royal Mail Group a trusted, positive and successful
place to work.

Part 1:
Business Behaviour

1.

a & © SS

oN

9,

10.
11.
12.

Health and safety

Service to our customers
Serving the community
Concern for the environment

Dealing fairly with suppliers,
clients and customers

Competitive behaviour
Political impartiality
Mail Integrity

Security and trust
Conflicts of interest
Gifts and hospitality
Bribery

Part 2:
Personal Behaviour

1.
oa

Equality and fairness
Managers duty of care

Personal conduct and
appearance

Working with colleagues

Use of company funds &
property

Use of computer, internet and
phones & recording
equipment

Preventing & reporting crime
POL00423676
POL00423676

Our values (Draft — work in progress)

Royal Mail Group’s corporate values reflect the principles, beliefs and
aspirations that guide our behaviour and shape our culture.

SAFETY
We do not compromise on safety - ever

CUSTOMER
We put our customers at the heart of all we do

FAIRNESS AND RESPECT
We treat each other with fairness and respect

PRIDE
We feel proud of Royal Mail Group’s history and future

SUPPORT
We listen and respond to each other

DELIVERY
We deliver on our promises

POL00423676
POL00423676

Our expectations

What you Royal Mail Group commits to:

can v Provide a safe, healthy, respectful and
productive work environment

expect v_ Treat individuals fairly and with respect
from US... v Protect individuals from harassment, bullying
and victimisation

v Support individuals to raise any concerns

Y Operate within the law
What we Royal Mail Group expects all employees to:
expect Y Act with integrity at all times
from v ela and productive during working
you... v Follow the Royal Mail Code and policies

v Take sound judgement and personal
accountability for workplace actions

v Demonstrate respect to each other

v Operate within the law

POL00423676
POL00423676

Your personal commitment

You will be asked to acknowledge your awareness that you
must:

A) Follow the code and policies

We all have a duty to uphold the standards defined in this guide, and
managers should make sure their teams know about it and observe it. It forms
part of the company rules which you must follow during your employment.

Please be aware that any breach of this guide may be dealt with under the
Conduct Code, and that gross misconduct could result in dismissal.

B) Raise any concerns you may have

If you discover that the company’s standards and reputation are being put at
risk by unethical or even criminal behaviour, you should report the facts to a
senior manager. Ignoring bad behaviour is wrong and will damage the
reputation of our company and everyone who works for us.

Of course, we realise it isn’t always easy reporting unethical or criminal
_behaviour. If you have any concerns, please contact the HR helpline (Postline
i _.) for support.

POL00423676
POL00423676

Making the right decisions...

The Code should be used to guide you when difficult situations arise.

Of course, not every specific situation you'll encounter is covered; some
decisions are black and white while others may have shades of grey.

You are entrusted to use good judgment in your day-to-day
activities, and to seek further information or assistance
when you need it.

Questions to consider

We all, at some time in our working lives, confront dilemmas about
whether an action is right.

If you are faced with a dilemma ask yourself:
e Is it in line with Royal Mail Group Code, policy or standards?
e Does it feel right?
e Is it legal?
e Will it reflect negatively on you or Royal Mail Group?
e Who else could be affected by this (e.g. colleagues, clients)?

e Would you be embarrassed if others knew you took this
course of action?

e Is there a better alternative action?

If you are still unsure what is the right thing to do, talk to your line
manager, HR, or report the matter via the Speak Up process.

POL00423676
POL00423676

Business
Behaviour

The behaviour that makes a
difference to our customers and
how our business is run

POL00423676
POL00423676

>

Business Behaviour

1. Health and safety

2. Service to our customers

3. Serving the community

4. Concern for the environment

5. Dealing fairly with suppliers, clients &
customers

6. Competitive behaviour

7. Political impartiality

8. Mail Integrity

9. Security and trust

10. Conflicts of interest

11. Gifts and hospitality

Ne Bribery /

POL00423676
POL00423676

Health and safety

Everyone has a responsibility for their own
safety and those of their colleagues.

We can all protect ourselves by:

e Always working safely, so that we don’t endanger
ourselves or others by thoughtless action

e Taking the initiative personally to remove or report
promptly any hazards

e Challenging unsafe practices “While on our

customers’
premises you must
conform to their
e Being familiar with the rules that apply in our safety standards”
workplace for health and safety and fire safety

e Taking steps to ensure the safety of customers,
visitors and contractors who use our premises

e Working together to improve safety performance
in all our business activities

Example:

A manager notices that his employees aren’t pushing yorks in the correct
way and believes this could be a risk to the employees safety and others

around him. He suggests an alternative and correct way for the task.

The manager has effectively taken responsibility for the safety of his
colleagues.

(For further information, see policies F08, Fire Safety, in the Finance category of policies on the Policies and 10
Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Service to our customers

Our customers are our first priority.

We exist to serve their needs by giving
them:

e Value-for-money services and products

e Timely, reliable and secure performance of

services nationwide “Mistakes and
a ; service failures not
e Accurate and accessible information about all only damage our
our services and products reputation but also
lose us

e Helpful and courteous service at all times; and PA
customers

e Aprompt and ready fix if things go wrong.

Everyone in the organisation has an important part to play in living up to
these standards. If we fail our customers, they are likely to take their
business elsewhere. That is damaging to our business and to our job
security.

And it will not go unnoticed. Our external regulator, Postcomm, can impose
penalties or even withdraw our licence to operate if we fail to deliver on our
obligations. We also have an active consumer watchdog, which monitors
the service we give to customers.

“We are trying to make the customer experience of Royal Mail the
thing that drives everything”

Quote from the CEO

(For further information, see policy RO1, Regulation, in the Regulation category, and policy G19, Management of thé
Relationship with Postwatch, in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site)
POL00423676
POL00423676

Serving the community

We recognise that we have responsibilities,
as one of the largest organisations in the
country, to play a special role in the
community.

Our policy is to:

e Consider properly the effects the conduct of our business may have
on people and communities; consulting wherever appropriate

e Make wise use of resources available for the support of deserving
charities and community causes, in line with our agreed company
priorities.

While we encourage our people to become involved in community activity,
any charitable activity in work time or in uniform must always be approved
by the individual's line manager and must be in line with company policy

Example:

An employee decides to take part in a sponsored run to support
Barnados. He asks for sponsorship in his office. This is an excellent

example of our employees serving the community.

(For further information, see policies G24, Charitable Donations & Support, and G25, Education &Schools, in the 12
Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Concern for the environment

Our policy is to comply fully with all relevant
environmental law, and to promote initiatives
that save on the resources we use.

e Weare committed to taking account of the
environmental and ethical effects of our policies
in our planning and operations.

“We can all play
an important part
in supporting good
environmental
practice by not
wasting resources,
such as fuel,
energy and paper”

e Where we have to balance environmental
benefits with commercial needs, we shall
properly consider the needs of our customers
and the community at large

e Instandards of design and cleanliness, we
recognise our responsibility to ensure that our
premises and street furniture are a credit to the
communities in which they are situated.

Example:

Through the Cycle2work Scheme I was able to purchase a new bike and
now cycle to work each day, even on the darkest, coldest winter months.

We're now a one car family. We’ve reduced our carbon footprint, saved
money and I’m fitter.

(For further information, see policy G17, Environmental policy, in the Governance category of policies on the ad
Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Dealing fairly with suppliers,

clients and customers

We seek to build trust with our suppliers,
clients, agents and business customers
through fair and consistent dealing. We can

do this by keeping our side of agreements, cS

sticking to deadlines and delivering in full.

Our people involved in negotiating contracts are expected to ensure best
value for the business and to set an example of competence and integrity.

When doing business for the company remember that:

e Contract and tender procedures must comply with both business rules
and the law

e Any new project must be approved at the proper level of authorisation
within the business

e You must have the proper authority before you negotiate or sign
contracts

e You must avoid any business practice which might reasonably be judged
improper. This includes ‘cutting corners’ by neglecting proper
consultations or procedures

e Prices and conditions must not be set in an anti-competitive manner

e When any non-standard form of contract is proposed, advice must be
sought from Legal Services at the earliest opportunity

e tis company policy to pay within the time agreed to those who have
supplied us with goods and services to the correct specification.

(For further information, see policies F1, Authority to Requisition, Procedure and Pay and F6, Liability in
Purchasing Contracts, in the Finance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Competitive behaviour

The only right way to compete is by ensuring
that our business methods are always
honourable, professional and legal.

Competition Law

We are bound by both UK and EU competition law, and the fact that we are
dominant in many of the markets in which we operate imposes additional
legal responsibilities on us. Failure by any of our units or subsidiaries to
observe these legal obligations may have serious consequences for the
business as a whole.

Compliance

Royal Mail Group operates in a strict regulatory framework and is also
subject to the application of EC and UK competition law generally. It is
therefore essential that all managers across the business should become
familiar with the “Royal Mail Group Licence’ and ‘Competing Fairly’: The
Competition Law Compliance Guide’.

‘The Royal Mail Group Licence’

issued by Postcomm, as required under the Postal Services Act 2000, sets
the requirements and obligations Royal Mail has to meet as a licensed
postal operator, including a requirement to ring-fence Wholesale activity.

Our licence from Postcomm also forbids us from obtaining
unfair competitive advantage or from acting in an anti-
competitive way.

This applies to the terms on which we provide competitors
access to our pipeline, as well as our pricing and other
market behaviour.

POL00423676
POL00423676

Competitive behaviour

‘Competing Fairly’ “It is unethical to
Sets guidelines for participating effectively misrepresent, defame or
within the boundaries of competition law. abuse competitors. ‘Dirty
Managers should ensure that relevant tricks’ against competitors
members of their teams are familiar with are never acceptable and
the contents of the licence and the guide may expose an employee
and take a positive approach towards the involved in personal
company’s compliance policy. liability”

Pricing: We must not collude with competitors to fix prices, distort the
market or restrain competition. We should be able to show that our prices
are related to our costs, and have not been fixed with a view to keeping a
competitor out of a market. Any discounts we offer must be based on
consistent and demonstrable principles. We should not price ina
discriminatory, excessive or predatory manner in markets where we are
dominant, or in related markets.

Relations with competitors

‘Competing Fairly’ explains the guidelines and the steps our people must
take to remain above suspicion of anti-competitive behaviour when
benchmarking or having discussions or meetings with competitors.
Information about the prices charged by competitors may only be obtained in
an open and legitimate manner.

Example:

Store & Send Solution for online retailers — our warehousing and
distribution service is part of an online product range designed to help us

take advantage of the boom in online shopping. We’re getting lots of
leads from our Sales team and have a growing customer base. Our
service saves business money, and by helping companies expand we’re
generating more work for us too.

(For further information, see policies G04, Competition Law Compliance and G02, Benchmarking and Exchanging 16
Information with outside organisations , in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet
site). “Competing Fairly: The Compliance Guide” can be viewed in Our Policies and Guidelines)
POL00423676
POL00423676

Political impartiality

The interests of our company, and those of fe

our customers, must not be compromised . ee
by any party political interest or activity.

For example:

Electoral material which we are obliged by law to Take care not make
deliver, must be treated correctly and with the any statement to the
same respect as other mail entrusted to us by media on behalf of

customers. the company unless
Company funds and resources may not be used, you are authorised
directly or indirectly, for partisan purposes. These to do so and have

include party or campaign funds, or any improper cleared the
attempts to influence a political decision or the I statement first with
outcome of an election. External Relations.

Company funds and resources may not be used,
directly or indirectly, to attempt to advance
company interests by payments to foreign
governments or officials

There are a few simple rules to remember and keep to:

Political activity by our people is not permitted at work. This includes
any active support of parties, pressure groups or other causes

Badges, slogans or notices advertising parties or causes must not be
displayed while on duty or in uniform, or on company premises, notice
boards or vehicles.

You must not distribute or deliver unauthorised material while you are
on duty or in uniform, or allow anyone else to use business services
free of charge.

(For further information, see policy G05 Conflicts of Interest, in the Governance category, also see policies CS3, Contact
with Elected Representatives and Opinion Formers, and CS8 Public Relations & News Management, in the 17
Communications category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site.
POL00423676
POL00423676

Mail integrity

The security of mail is vitally important to Royal Mail and our
customers. We have a licence obligation to minimise the risk
of loss, theft, damage or interference to postal packets.

Any loss or breach of security can receive negative media attention that
undermines customer confidence in our ability to safeguard the mail. We must
protect the integrity of the mail by:

e Recruiting all employees, contractors and agents strictly in accordance
with our Vetting policy and requirements. This is the responsibility of the
hiring manager or contract owner

e Training all employees on Mail Integrity before they are allowed access to
postal packets, and regularly refreshing training

e Ensuring all employees are aware of, or have access to, the security
standards and procedures required in their duties to ensure mail security

e Individually and collectively working compliantly to those standards

e Take appropriate disciplinary action where those standards or procedures
are not met

e Reporting and recording any incidents of loss, theft, damage or
interference.

Operational Pipeline Security Standards:
Mail is never left unattended or insecure at any time
All our people have an appropriate level of security awareness
Unauthorised access to Royal Mail sites is prevented

Special Delivery and High Risk mail are afforded appropriate protection

Supervisory checks to safeguard mail are effectively deployed

Equipment used to convey mail affords the appropriate level of security at all times

POL00423676
POL00423676

Security and trust

Millions of items are entrusted to us by our
customers every day. We handle large
volumes of cash and valuable items and we
gain information in the course of our
business that is confidential.

We must win and keep the absolute trust of our customers and others we
come in contact with. The strength of the company rests on the integrity of
individual people.

Maintaining our standards means:

e Honesty in handling all items, cash and valuables
entrusted to us

e Correct accounting in all financial transactions

and claims, and observance of established ; “Display
business control procedures identification
: issued to you and
e Safeguarding company property and assets, Be
4 prepared to
ensuring that they are not stolen, abused, 1
q d iated f politely challenge,
amaged, or appropriated for personal use in an appropriate
e Making economic use of resources, avoiding way, anyone on
waste and extravagance our premises who
e Ensuring that company funds and property are is not wearing
identification”

never used for private purposes

e Ensuring that company premises and facilities are
not abused for unauthorised commercial
transactions

e Safeguarding confidential information against
abuse or unauthorised disclosure, and complying
with laws protecting personal data.

(For further information, see policies 1S1.1, Information Security, S2, Criminal and Investigation, S3, Persecution, ,
1$2.1, Information Classification, IS6.6, Mobile Security, in the Security category. G13, Data Protection Act 1008, ~~
G16, Insider Dealing, in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Conflicts of interest

Our behaviour and frankness can often
avoid difficult situations.

The essential principles of conduct are:

e You must not do anything which conflicts with
your duty as an employee or agent of the
company, or use your official position for private
advantage

e You must declare any outside employment;

directorship or material shareholding and these
must not be contrary to the company’s
commercial interests or bring it into disrepute.

Your actions as an employee or agent must not
be improperly influenced by any relationship
(eg. by blood, marriage, partnership or
membership of any social, religious or political
association) or by any personal or financial
consideration

If you receive a fee from an outside source for
performing a service which forms part of your
official duties or takes place in business time
(eg. giving an interview or lecture) you must
report it to your manager.

“Make sure you
inform your line
manager and HR
manager of any
circumstances
which create a
conflict of
interest with your
duties as an
employee or
agent, and seek
their advice if you
are unsure”

Press statement Q&A:

Q: I have been approached by a national newspaper to give a statement
about Royal Mail as they’re writing a report on delayed mail. Am I able to
do this?

A: You must not make any statement to the media that brings the company
into disrepute.

POL00423676
POL00423676

Gifts and hospitality

You must not accept any gift, payment,
bribe, favour or inducement that might
influence, or appear to influence, your
action as an employee.

In addition you must not:

e Offer any bribe or inducement to anyone else. If
any such offer is made to you, you must report it to

your manager. Use judgement
. . ; and restraint, and
e Solicit or accept private arrangements for gifts, consult your
discounts or concessions in connection with any manager if in
contract for goods or services to which the doubt.

company is a party.

e Ask for or accept sporting or charitable sponsorship
from an organisation that has (or is seeking) a

_. gs You must report
contract to supply the company, or is in competition

ae to your manager
with it. You must declare any plan to accept any gifts (except
sponsorship to your manager and ask if here is any low-value
conflict with company interests. promotional)

e Provide or accept hospitality or entertainment that are sent or
which, because of its expense or nature, may cause given to you
the company embarrassment or bring it into
disrepute.

What are the rules around hospitality?

Hospitality, given or received, must be moderate, not lavish or excessive.
It must have a legitimate connection with a business purpose.

Modest hospitality to other company’s employees on business occasions

is sometimes justifiable, but extravagance must be avoided. Alcoholic
drinks are not permitted at business meetings or on company premises
except for authorised social functions out of the working hours of those
present.

POL00423676
POL00423676

The trust that Royal Mail Group enjoys en
from its customers is one of our key I m=

What is bribery?

Bribery is promising, offering, giving, requesting or accepting whether
directly or through a third party any advantage to induce or reward,
behaviour that is improper, i.e. illegal, unethical or a breach of duty. Evan
if a bribe is turned down or fails to have the intended affect, it is still a
bribe.

*Advantages’ may be financial or non financial and could include the
following: money, loans, donations (including charitable donations), an
award of business, employment contracts, any other advantage or
benefit which is intended, or perceived to be of value to the recipient or
another person.

Royal Mail has a zero tolerance policy on bribery. Therefore:
e You must never promise, offer or give a bribe
e You must never request or accept a bribe

e You will not suffer demotion, penalty or other adverse consequences
for refusing to pay or receive bribes

Example:
An employee has been offered gift vouchers by a retail outlet if he
ensures that their mail is delivered first in the morning. If he accepts this

then he will be breaching our policy on gifts. He should report this to his
manager.

(For further information, see policies G05, Conflicts of Interest, G09, Gifts & Hospitality, G32 and Anti-bribery in22
the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
Personal
Behaviour

The behaviour that makes a
difference to how we interact
with our colleagues

POL00423676
POL00423676

POL00423676
POL00423676

/ sereona Behaviour >

. Equality and fairness

_s

Manager duty of care
Personal conduct and appearance
Working with colleagues

Use of company funds and property

oa F CN

Use of computer, internet and phones
and recording equipment

7. Preventing and reporting crime

Ne yy,

24
POL00423676
POL00423676

Equality and fairness

Equality is about treating our people the
way we want to be treated ourselves.

We are committed to placing equality, diversity and fairness at the heart of
our everyday practices.

This means:
e We should always be open, honest and courteous with each other

e Not discriminating on grounds of race, colour, ethnic or national origin,
nationality, disability, marital or civil partner status, sexual orientation,
pregnancy or maternity, age, religion or belief, sex or gender
reassignment

e Meeting our legal obligations towards disabled customers and our
people by providing them with equal facilities and opportunities

e Meeting our public commitments for treating the Welsh and English
languages equally in services to the public in Wales

e Honouring the terms of contracts of employment

e Respecting the legal rights of individuals to be members of recognised
trades unions, and honouring agreements made with our recognised
trades unions

e Ensuring that appointments, promotions, bonuses or discretionary
payments are governed by our policies, without favouritism or prejudice

Everyone in the organisation is expected to share in and support these
principles at work. Failure to do so may open the organisation and

individuals to legal action. Our managers are expected to take personal
responsibility for ensuring that these principles are put into practice, and to
set an example in the workplace

(For further information, see policies G14, Disabled Customers, G12, Welsh Language, in the Governance category 66
policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676

POL00423676

Manager duty of care

We expect our managers to:

e Show initiative and commitment, and encourage
those qualities in others by leadership example

e Advance and protect company interests, after
making an adequate assessment of commercial
or other risks

e Putinterests of the company, as a whole, above
those of any particular part of the business

e Use company funds prudently, avoiding
expenditure which does not benefit customers or
add value to our core activity

e Behave responsibly, ensuring that your actions
are lawful and do not expose you or the
company to legal liability, either by ill-advised
action or by negligence, and

e Take reasonable measures to record ands

safeguard essential information, and to ensure
business continuity in the event of mishaps.

“Your behaviour

as a manager
should never be in
conflict with the
standards required
in this guide in
dealings with
colleagues,
suppliers,
customers,
competitors or
outside
organisations”

Example:

A manager always offers over time to one of his employee first.

This is showing favouritism and does not live up to the high
standards of behaviour that we expect between colleagues.

(For further information, see policies F04, Business Continuity Planning, in the Finance category and G06, Document 6
Retention, in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Personal conduct and appearance

High standards of personal conduct
at work are expected of everyone.

We should all show:

=
v_ Efficiency and reliability
v_ Integrity “The possession, sale and
v¥ Punctuality and good attendance the use of illegal drugs,
Y Asmart and clean appearance. alcohol at work are expressly
forbidden”

Conduct

Conduct which damages service to customers or the reputation or
efficiency of the company is unacceptable, including lateness, poor
attendance, dishonesty, drunkenness, use of illegal substances, and
violent or disorderly behaviour.

Gambling is not permitted on duty or on company premises, and
employee clubs can exist only if they comply with company rules.

Appearance

All colleagues must present a credible image to the public, in line with
business dress code. Any marks, badges, ribbons, jewellery, tattoos or
ornaments (including items used in body-piercing) that are offensive,
indecent, a health and safety risk, or otherwise incompatible with the
standards in this guide should not be displayed on duty or on company
premises or property.

If still in doubt about the standards required of you afterreading
this guide, consult your line manager or HR Help on Postlin ' GRO I

ee 7
(For further information, see policy G26, Clubs, Societies & Associations, and G20, Clubs: Compliance with the Financial
Services and Markets Act 2000 in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Working with colleagues

We expect high standards of behaviour
and respect between each other at all

times.
We must: “We can all help
e Always be open, honest and courteous with each to create an
other atmosphere at
e Not abuse others in speech, writing or gesture work in which .
every individual is
e Not behave in any way that suggests prejudice able to give his or
or favouritism her best”
e Not engage in, encourage or condone bullying,
intimidation, harassment, unlawful discrimination,
or abuse of any kind
e Challenge any instances we encounter of “We should
bullying, intimidation, harassment, unlawful treat each other
discrimination or abuse in the workplace, and with dignity and
show that such behaviour is not acceptable in respect ie
our organisation everything we
Say, do and
e Not exploit colleagues (particularly junior ones) write”

for loans, private work or favours of any kind.

Royal Mail Group is committed to maintaining a work environment
that is free from discrimination, harassment and retaliation.

We are determined to act against bullying and harassment and the
misery they cause to the victim. Anyone experiencing bullying and
harassment at work can call the helpline number: _

POL00423676
POL00423676

Use of company funds & property

We expect you to protect Royal Mail
Group’s property and assets

Do not use our assets for your
personal benefit or the benefit of
anyone other than the company.

Remember that:

It is a criminal offence to:

e Claim money from the company for hours
you did not work,

e Claim money for a journey you did not
make

e Claim an expense you did not legitimately
incur

e Use inside information about a company
transaction for personal profit

All the above are unacceptable and may be
treated as gross misconduct, which could
result in your dismissal. If theft or fraud is
involved, the company is likely to prosecute.

Example:

Examples of company
assets:

Official stationery
Pre-paid envelopes
Company money
Telephones
Photocopiers
Mobile phones
Wireless devices
Computer systems
Computer software

Remember that you
have a duty to
declare any criminal
conviction- you must
inform your manager

An employee claims expenses for his travel when he must drive to

other offices. He often adds a few extra miles onto his claim so
that he can earn a bit more money. This, however, is an abuse of
company funds.

(For further information, see policies IS1.1, Information Security, S2, Criminal and Investigation, S3, Persecution,
S1, Security, 1S2.1, Information Classification, IS6.6, Mobile Security, in the Security category. G13, Data

29

Protection Act 1008, G16, Insider Dealing, in the Governance category of policies on the Policies and Standards

intranet site).
POL00423676
POL00423676

Use of computer, internet, phones

& recording equipment

We provide computers, mobile phones

and a range of mobile equipment such e
as laptops, and PDAs as work tools for

many of our people.

Company policy allows some limited and reasonable personal use of this
equipment in your own time.

However it does not permit:
Use of unauthorised software

Unauthorised modification of computer components or other
equipment

e Access to gambling, pornography or other indecent, illegal or offensive
material

e Sending colleagues or others pornographic, indecent, illegal, offensive,
threatening or insulting material, or chain or ‘spam’ emails

e Import or onward transmission of documents or emails that breach
security rules concerning protection from computer viruses

e Anunreasonable amount of work time spent on the internet for
personal use or sending personal emails

e Removal of a computer from Royal Mail premises without permission
All the above are unacceptable and may be treated as gross misconduct,
which could result in your dismissal.

Q: I want to use my work laptop at home and would like to add some
additional software. Am I able to do this?

A: You can use your work laptop for personal use but any unauthorised
modification of components breaches our policy on computer use.

30
(For further information, see policy P06, Acceptable Use policy, in the Personnel category of the Policies and Standards
intranet site.)
POL00423676
POL00423676

Preventing & reporting crime

We all have a duty to guard against crime, and “Nobody, however,
to take care that we do not expose colleagues should risk death
or company property to criminal activity by or injury in

relaxing proper procedures. circumstances of

; ; extreme danger,
We also have a duty to take action to prevent crime such as a criminal

against the company, whether by terrorists, attack or hostage
computer hackers, outsiders or by our people, and situation”
to report it whenever necessary.

What if I witness criminal activity?

If you see any crime being committed against the company, or become
aware of criminal activity being planned against it either by a member of the
public or by our people, you should contact the Security Helpdesk.

If you become the victim of threats or intimidation and are asked to take
part in, or to keep quiet about, any criminal activity against the company or
its people, your duty and best course is to report the facts as soon as
possible so that action can be taken to prevent the crime and to give you
support and protection.

What if I am asked to provide confidential information?

If you are asked by an unauthorised person to disclose confidential
information or to do something that you know to be against business rules,
you must report the facts to your manager.

Example:

Ascam involving someone calling the office falsely claiming there
had been a gas leak at an address and asking for the mail to be held at

the office, was uncovered by quick thinking colleagues. The fraudster
attempted to collect the mail but the team on duty delayed them whilst
the police were called.

aL
For further information, see policies S1, Security,S2, Criminal and Investigation, S3, Prosecution in the Security
category, policies G5, Conflicts of Interest, G7, Employee Disclosure.
POL00423676
POL00423676

What to do if you have a concern

Don’t be silent..

If you have a genuine concern about
behaviours, criminal activity or failures to
comply with the Royal Mail Group Code
please use our anonymous process to
report it.

Whistleblowing

Whistleblowing refers to the disclosure by
an employee of serious, potentially
criminal matters that have taken place or
are taking place within the organisation,
to a line manager, independent manager
or external body.

The Speak Up (Whistleblowing) policy
describes how you can raise genuine
concerns about wrongdoings at the
earliest possible stage in the right way.

It is your responsibility

We all have a duty to guard against
crime, and to take care that we do not
expose colleagues or company property
to criminal activity by relaxing proper
procedures.

Call the Speak Up line
to report concerns:

om
=

El Or Email:

www.intouchfeedback.com/royalmail

or the Security
Helpdesk:

EE
=e GRO

El Or Email:

“We aim to conduct
business with the
highest standards of
honesty, integrity and
openness. We believe
that it is essential to
create an environment
in which employees
feel able to raise
concerns internally”

32

POL00423676
POL00423676

Getting help

Your first point of support for this guide should be your line manager or the
HR pages of the intranet (and if applicable, the Policy and Information site
on PSP). Alternatively use the following numbers:

Royal Mail HR Services Advice Centre:

= _iselecting the option for ‘advice & support’ to access
your advice line number)

Parcelforce Worldwide: Other useful contact points:

= GRO ~ I Bullying & Harassment Helpline:

ned

Post Office Limited:

Security Helpdesk:
cy GRO
POL00423676
POL00423676

Royal Mail Group

BACK PAGE

&

34
