Dassen Mller

Peter Mathison

Chief Executive #
Benefits Agency

Quarry House

Quarry Full . . ‘Swart J Sy BSc FCA
LEEDS peciesa
LS27UA 19 June 1998

Post Office Counters Ltd

Dear estes
HORIZON & TREASURY REVIEW

I wanted to share with you our views on the outcome of the

Treasury Panel on Horizon. As you can see from the attached letter
from Paul Rich to Adrian Montague, we feel able to support in principle
one of the options put forward by the Panel - that which envisages a
migration from the benefit payment card to a smartcard/banking
system over the right period of time.

There are, of course, important factors to be worked through in getting
to this, but we believe if this option is taken forward then it can fulfil
the visions DSS and POCL have set out for themselves respectively.
ICL will need to prove itself in terms of delivery too, of course,-and an
equitable commercial arrangement needs to be put in place. We are
convinced this is the best option for all parties.

In going forward, I’d like to assure you on three points. First that POCL
will wholly commit itself to the proper delivery of the programme and
will look to exert its authority across the programme to solve issues and
drive it forward. Second, that we are very much looking to do this ina
spirit of partnership - with yourselves, with-Government, with ICL and
with the other stakeholders that we will need to ensure play their part
in turning this challenge into reality. We must, in my view, be able to
plan this complex transition openly and together over a considerable
period of time. Finally, we know too that we must step up to the
commercial challenges facing us to develop the system, and we have
now prepared ourselves strategically for that.

Post Office Counters Led
‘Cont. King Edward Building

King Edward Street

LONDON

ECIA TAA,

160698¢

Pout ORs Cor Ud Reruerd ns
Nec} Bepmered Oca tog Card beg
eg tra Soret London (CIATAA,

POL00028650
POL00028650

POL00028650
POL00028650

Contd./2

These commitments will be backed by the PO Board. Towards that,
John Roberts has met Keith Todd recently. As a result , John and Ihave
planned to meet Keith with his team immediately after the Government
decision on Horizon in order to ensure direction is set, strategy
developed and issues resolved.

I would appreciated having your views too about the Panel’s findings,
and to hear your thoughts on how you plan to drive the programme
forward under the proposed new arrangements.

STUART SWEETMAN

Copy: John Roberts
Paul Rich

160698¢

