POL00165852
POL00165852

Mike Wilcox To:
23/02/2011 15:28

Nigel Allen/e/POSTOFFICE, Lin Norbury/e/P:
ce: Jason G Collins/e/POSTOFFICE, Post Office
Whitham/e/POSTOFFICE

Subject: FRAUD - Case Closure - POLTD/1011/0160

Case Closure Reporting

Case Closure report must be emailed to Primary Stakeholder and copied to all Secondary Stakeholders &
Jacqueline Whitham, on final completion/submission of case.

Case reference:

Date case set up:

Branch Name: (or other Location)

Branch Code:

Main Enquiry Category:

Enquiry Type:

Name of Person(s) Interviewed: (if applicable)

Subject type / Grade: (Delete as applicable):

Case File associated:

Primary Stakeholder:

Secondary Stakeholder(s):

Identified ‘Criminal’ Loss:

POLTD/1011/0160

22/12/2010

Barkham RG41 4SY

212 939

Disputed Transactions

Cash Loss

Pamela Stubbs (not under caution interview)

Postmistress (EX)

Not with this email

As above

As above
NB: Only losses attributable to fraud and/or where the Joss is the result of suspect fraudulent activity, should be
recorded. For example if the case is an audit shortage of £50k, but £10k is known to be outstanding/other TCs,
then the Identified ‘Criminal Loss is £40k.

Potential Recovery: (method & dates) £

NB: Potential recoveries include known TCs to be issued, arrangements being made for instalments, ongoing sale
of property, etc - ie any known / instigated activity undertaken to pursue recovery, which is in the pipeline.

Actual Recovery: (method & dates) £

NB: Actual recoveries include known cash repaid. known cheques repaid, either via funding notification, direct to
Late Account, etc - ie any known recovery that has been been physically received, as opposed to being in the
pipeline,

Confiscation case: No

SPSO cases: has SPMR been made aware of loss?: Yes

Is there a Financial Investigation still ongoing?: (it N/A
yes, this form must be emailed to relevant Financial Investigator as
case will remain open within their remit)

Final outcome: (if prosecution include further details below) N° criminal activity identified

Prosecution Outcome: (Include court, date & sentence) NIA

Costs / Compensation: (Compensation awarded in multiple
partner cases / SPSO assistant cases rust be_renaid to loser -
contact PBA Banking Duty! _ GRO ito ensure
compensation cheques deait :

Debarment: (Confirm completed and date forwarded to To be decided on by retail line
Intelligence Transaction Manager)

Procedural and organizational failings identified -
(ensure PROCEDURAL FAILINGS form is also updated & emailed
to Stakeholders)

Procedural and organizational failings discussion
held with Stakeholder(s): (discussion must occur prior to
closure - outline any solutions, agreed actions, refer to next level if
issues remain e.g Crown Office failings via BM/Operations
Manager).

Are there outstanding issues of a significant This case was raised following an ongoing

nature: (e.g impact, reluctance, refusal to implement solutions, pg es ae Mee stubs a Post Office
business critical, etc - if yes, the matter should be reported in more “4 '@94rding an outstanding

POL00165852
POL00165852
detail to Team Leader)

Any other comments: (NB: If DWP case then additional
closure form is required to be completed)

Security Advisor in case:

Security Programme Manager (Team Leader):

Regards

Mike Wilcox

Fraud Strand

Post Office Ltd, National Security Team

POL00165852
POL00165852

£28829.05. Mrs Stubbs is suggesting that
HORIZON is at fault when it was moved into a
Portakabin during renovations.

Along with Graham Brander I met
with Mrs Stubbs on 17" January and
she was convinced that HORIZON
was at fault. She has retained daily
transaction logs for December —
January in which time she lost
£9000 and is not prepared to release
this until she can compare it to
Fujitsu data. I have examined the
Fujitsu data and cannot see any
indications of fraud. She has
declared all the losses and has been
asking for assistance for some time.
There is a possibility (although she
will not accept it) that an assistant
has been taking the money but that
puts the onus back on her to report
it to the police. I have sent her the
Fujitsu data to reconcile with her

di transaction logs but from a
criminal / fraud point of view there
is no scope for further investigation
into any criminal activity.

Mike Wilcox

Jason G Collins

POL00165852
POL00165852

: Security Suite, PlymouthMail Centre, Breakwater RoadPLYMOUTHPL9
7XX

(ess

e

: mike.wilcox@

Confidential Information

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain

confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by

reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

ci fie

@
POL00165852
POL00165852

Lui Virsa

e

- image005.wmz
