POL00043964
POL00043964

"N_THE CROWN COURT AT LIVERPOOL, T2012 0934

REGINA

Vv

ANGELA SEFTON and ANNE NEILD

AGREED FACTS

For the purposes of these proceedings and in accordance with section 10 of the Criminal Justice Act
1967, the following facts are agreed and are formally admitted.

1. It is admitted that all exhibits adduced in evidence by the Prosecution have been properly
obtained, lawfully taken into the custody of the Prosecution, accurately identified and labelled.
No issue is taken by the Defence as to the provenance, identity, custody or transfer of custody, or
production of any exhibit. The parties to the proceedings agree that they are admissible.

2. All documents within the jury bundles and any documents put in evidence by the Prosecution or

the Defence are exhibits in the case, and the original of any document may be called for and
produced at any time.

3. All searches were lawfully executed.

4. The Defendants admit that their interviews under caution were properly conducted in accordance
with the appropriate statutory codes and guidelines. The documents entitled Record of Taped
Interviews adduced in evidence by the Prosecution contain an accurate representation of those
interviews.

5. Between 30" August 2011 and 2" December 2011 the charity ‘Animals in Need’ made 40
deposits of cash at Fazakerley Post Office. The deposits were made using a paying in book. The
cash was handed over with the paying in slip and retained at the Post Office.

6. The paying in slips and counterfoils were stamped and the paying in slips were seized at the Post
Office on the 6" January 2012. The schedule at page 44 of the exhibits correctly sets out the
information relating to each deposit.

7. Either Angela Sefion or Anne Nield was responsible for receiving the cash and stamping the
paying in book on each of the 40 occasions.

8. Over a period of time the Defendants jointly delayed payment of the cash deposited at the Post
Office to disguise the shortfall of cash that should have been present.

9. By 2" December 2011 the only customer making regular large deposits of cash using a paying in
book was ‘Animals in Need.’

10. Once ‘Animals in Need’ stopped making deposits from 2"? December 2011 there were no other
cash deposits being made to allow the shortfall in cash to be hidden.

John Gibson (Counsel for the Prosecution)
