POL00107702
POL00107702

Message

From: Paula Vennells

on behalf of — Paula Vennells ¢

Sent: 13/03/2012 22:24:37

To: Alice Perkins iH

cc: Susan Crichto! Glenda C Hansen
C I; Theresa lles {”

Subject: Re: James Arbuthnot

Sounds a good way forward. Thank you both for giving this the time.
Paula
Sent from my iPad

on 13 Mar 2012, at 21:32, “Alice Perkins” wrote:

> Alwen will do a note of the meeting for you and attach, on a personal basis, a document which JA gave
me.

> I won't duplicate that but would like to talk to you about this once you've had a chance to read them
and what follows.

> I think JA genuinely wants to seek a resolution to the difficulties concerned and is willing to believe
that we will do the right things. There is a real prize for us in finding an effective way of convincing
him and his fellow MPs that things are as they should be. He believes that this would quieten down
Private Eye and would prevent proposed escalation eg adjournment debate etc. To do this, we might
commission a new independent review of the Horizon related questions (my thought) or invite him
accompanied by someone from Computer Weekly to visit the Model office and be shown how Horizon works (his
suggestion) or something else altogether.

> I promised to go back to him once I had had the chance to consider all this. I would like to do so by
Easter, or at least have fixed a further meeting by then.

> I am asking Glenda to set up a meeting to discuss this amongst ourselves in the next couple of weeks.

> All the best

> Alice

* fiestas ie weer Royal Mail Group Limited
registered in England and wales registered number 4138203 registered office 3rd Floor, 100 Victoria
Embankment, London, EC4Y OHQ This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or
distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the
sender and then delete this email from your system.

POL-0110803
