POL00146234
POL00146234

From: Susan Crichton[IMCEAEX-
O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28F Y DIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS_CN=SUSAN+20CRICHTONC5FA6431-DC28-49AB-8FOF-

BE4237A4AD4F @C72A47.ingest.local]

Sent: Sun 01/09/2013 3:36:15 PM (UTC)

To: susan.crichtong —

Subject: FW: draft note for the Board
Attachment: image001 .gif

Attachment: image002.png

Attachment: image003.png

Attachment: image004.png

Attachment: image005.png

Attachment: image006.gif

Attachment: image007.png

From: Paula Vennells

Sent: 27 August 2013 22:47

To: Alwen Lyons; Susan Crichton
Subject: Fwd: draft note for the Board

Alwen, thank you for this. I'll get back to you on one section I'm reviewing but wanted to get Susan in the loop on
Horizon asap. The other two parts below are fine - just a colon and inverted commas missing from the MG piece (to
lead into the SLT note). I have amended below.

Re Horizon: I think there is too much detail re the release but nothing on reassuring the Board re mediation. They will
want to know how we plan to manage any associated risks.

Susan, a couple of questions to help position this: I have just read the mediation pack tonight: p10 states clearly that
compensation can be a possible outcome. When we discussed this, the hope of mediation was to avoid or minimise
compensation but as far as I can see, the pack doesn't really suggest any other outcome. (Difficult To do I know.) And
so, this will be the page that Spmrs will pay attention to. You explained that there were steps in place to advise Spmrs
entering the process that this was a chance to be heard and not to expect compensation. How are we planning to
manage those expectations? And where compensation may be offered, you mentioned small figures in the £3-5k
band: can we give a range of costs? (ROM is fine)

The Board note might be better briefer and more factual: ie., mediation launched as per our commitment
(independent adjudication); some reassurance around what we expect from the mediation process - ie., not
compensation; it has gone through the ARC/ and or discussed with Alasdair/Alice; Board (or ARC?) will be updated in
more detail in Sept., Board pack?

This is urgent: the Board might have expected to be informed before or at least at the same time as the release was
issued. I'm sure they will understand because of strikes but it's a bit close. For first thing tomorrow please.

Thanks both,

Paula
Sent from my iPad
Begin forwarded message:

From: Alwen Lyons

POL00146234
POL00146234

Date: 27 August 2013 20:
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: draft note for the Board

Paula her is the message for the Board, can you let me have any amends. Would you look in particular
at the HR piece as these are my words and you may want to change them. The rest is picked up from
communications but I have positioned as your note.

Dear All
I promised you a note covering four different areas, apologies for the length of the email but there is a
lot to cover

Horizon - Announcement of independent mediation scheme for subpostmasters (Project Sparrow)

We have today announced the introduction of an independent mediation scheme to address the
concerns raised by some subpostmasters regarding cases which they feel require further resolution.

This follows the publication of the interim report into the Horizon system produced by Second Sight in
July. As you know the report stated that so far no evidence of system wide (systemic) problems with the
Horizon software had been found. However, it noted that improvements could be made in the training
and support processes provided to subpostmasters. In response to the report we have made a number
of commitments, one of which is to create this independent mediation scheme for subpostmasters and
the Post Office to investigate and try to resolve a subpostmaster's concerns.

The Post Office, JFSA (Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance), and Second Sight, the independent
investigators, have formed a working group to collaboratively develop and monitor this scheme which is
available to current and former subpostmasters from 27 August 2013.

Commenting on the launch of the Scheme, Angela van den Bogerd Post Office Head of Partnerships said:
“The Post Office is committed to addressing any outstanding concerns among subpostmasters swiftly
and transparently.

“As part of this commitment we set up an independent review which recently published an interim
report which found that so far there was no evidence of any systemic issues with Horizon but did identify
some further improvements we could make to our training and support arrangements, which we are
taking forward.

“In addition, the independent mediation scheme we are announcing today will provide an effective way
to assess and address any outstanding cases where subpostmasters feel they have been unfairly treated.

“Subpostmasters are the lifeblood of our business and we take their concerns extremely seriously. We
hope the package of measures we are announcing will demonstrate our commitment to working closely
with them to further improve our network.”

Commenting on the announcement, James Arbuthnot MP, who is spearheading interest in the matter at
Parliament, said: “I am very pleased indeed with the working group’s proposed process. To my mind, it
represents the very best chance all parties — individual subpostmasters and mistresses, and the Post
Office have of ensuring the best outcome for everyone. It is fair, thorough, and independent.”

Subpostmasters wishing to submit an application can visit www. jfsa.org.uk for further information.

I have am also in the process, with the help of Alasdair and Alice, setting up a lessons learned review to
POL00146234

POL00146234

understand what we could have done better in the independent review carried out by Second Sight, but
also to understand how the Business responded to the Subpostmasters’ challenges and whether our
process for dealing with balance queries, suspensions, prosecutions etc. were fair. This review will
report to me and Alwen will help facilitate the work for Richard Hatfield who has agreed to undertake
the work finishing by mid October.

Appointment of the new Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer

As you know we have been searching for a Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer. Following approval
by the Nominations & Remuneration Committees, I am pleased to inform you that Martin George has
been appointed to the role. In the spirit of no surprises, Martin has held a number of senior marketing
roles and was at BA during the time of the allegations of fixing the price of the fuel surcharge.
Appropriate due diligence was carried out to my satisfaction and to the satisfaction of the RemCom prior
to appointment and full references have been taken (two by me personally). Martin is a strong
marketing professional, who will be a great addition to the Post Office and bring additional strength to
the ExCo.

Attached is a copy of the communication that has gone out to the Senior Leadership Team. ShEx have
also been informed of the appointment:

"lam very pleased to be able to announce that Martin George will be joining the PO Executive
Committee, reporting to me, as Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer. He will be taking up his new
role on 23 September. Martin will be responsible for leading the Marketing, Mails, Telecoms,
Government and Digital teams as well as taking the lead on the SME agenda.

Martin is a proven business leader with significant experience in brand marketing, commercial and
general management; he is an accomplished marketing professional having worked in companies such
as Boots, Cadbury, British Airways and BUPA. He has held both senior executive and main Board roles.

In terms of his career there are many highlights, to draw out just a few: at Cadbury Martin worked in
Brand Management and won the National Marketing Award from the Institute of Marketing for a new
product launch, whilst at BA he transformed the commercial model from “intermediary push” to
“consumer pull” through a programme of product & service innovation as well as the introduction of
ba.com. Martin is passionate about the consumer, as well as numerous service enhancements; he
introduced BA miles to improve customer loyalty. He also led the commercial recovery of BA following
the tragic events of 9/11. Whilst at BUPA he led the global initiative on Brand repositioning and
transformed the ecommerce capability of the business,

I would like to extend my thanks to Paul Brown who has led the Commercial team on an interim basis
and who will work closely with Martin during his induction period.

lam sure that you will join with me in giving a warm welcome to Martin when he joins us in September."

Industrial Action Update
290 crown branches opened today (managers were deployed) with 79 closed.
There has been very limited media coverage of today’s strike action with the Daily Express being the

only national newspaper making reference to it. There has been no national TV broadcast coverage,
though a small number of regional radio stations have covered the strikes.
POL00146234
POL00146234

Yesterday, of the 19 branches in Scotland for whom we received notification of strike action (due to
different local holiday arrangements in Scotland), 9 opened and 10 closed. There was limited coverage in
the Scottish press and no significant coverage in the national press.

Over the course of the weekend approximately 60% of staff have taken strike action which is in line with
recent strikes.

Thanks
Alwen
Alwen Lyons I Company Secretary

eal 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SHQ

& alwen.lyons¢

& @postofficenews

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,
please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.

