POL00047065

POL00047065

Gary R Thomas To: Glenn Chesterd:
Brander.

19/09/2008 13:50 ce: Fraud T
Harbinson!

Southin; a
Subject: Stakeholdar Noi

This email is to notify you of the commencement of an investigation

NB. Please do not divulge this information to any other person without the authority of the investigating
officer.

@ Stakeholder Notification

Notification must be emailed to Primary Stakeholder _& copied to all Secondary Stakeholders .

\Case reference : POLTD/0809/0126
lOffice/Location: stwood Bank SPSO
WAddress/Tel No: 24! Astwood Bank, Redditch B96 6AD

GRO
346246
ee ECF associated below .€27811.28 Audit cash Loss .

[Branch Code:
Details:

I will appraise you of any significant developments throughout the investigation and would be grateful if
you could keep me informed of anything that may affect or inform my enquiries . Additionally, you will be
advised prior to any actions being taken , as part of the enquiry , (staff interviews / on site enquiries ) that
may impact on the operational efficiency of the location affected . In the event that staff / agent
interviews are undertaken then you will be supplied with sufficient detail of their content in order to deal
with any conduct issues that may arise .

You will be advised of the final outcome of this enquiry along with details of any weaknesses _/ failings
that may have facilitated the incident in question . You may be asked to provide feedback about this
investigation following case closure .

If you need any further information during the course of the investigation , please feel free to contact me
at any time on the number below . In the event that I am not available and an update is required please
do not hesitate to contact my Fraud Team Leader , Graham Brander , on:

POL00047065
POL00047065

Regards,

Gary Thomas
Fraud Advisor
Post Office Ltd, National Security Tearn

Spread the word...

On 603 A004

~.Stop the crime

Gb = i)

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is forthe sale use of the intended recipient (3) and may contain
confidentis! and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, dischsure or distribution is prohibted.

Ifyou are notthe intended recipient, please contact me by teply e-mail and destroy af copies of the orginal

message.

____. -A Please consider the erirorment before printing this e-ral
