POL00338518
POL00338518

Message

From: Mike Granville [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MIKE.GRANVILLEF9CC547D-14F1-4BF B-AE89-5C28E92235C3]

Sent: 24/11/2011 07:52:27

To: ; Mike Young Kevin Gilliland

I; Susan Crichton Chris M Day
cc: Alana Renner I GRO ; Stuart Taylor
Subject: Inside Out Programme on BBC East on Horizon

Attachments: Horizon BBC Insight Out final Nov 23 2011.doc

Paula, Mike, Kevin, Susan

We believe that BBC East will be running a segment about the Horizon system in their regional programme that we think
will be running on 28 November. We think that it may be a similar approach to that taken in other regional variants of the
programme earlier in the year ( e.g. in the South East).

The journalist involved has asked a series of questions about the system against a deadline of last night — and an
overview response to these with a statement has been put together — the e-mail below and attachment refers. This has
been done in conjunction with colleagues in POL, with David Simpson (who has discussed the response approach
through with Shane) and the material has been run across Legal (particularly given the parallel small number of
‘Shoosmiths’ ‘letters before claim’ that are currently in play).

The purpose of this e-mail is to keep you informed. If we hear of any further developments we'll let you know.

Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville

Head of Stakeholder Relations

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

GRO >

= BD

From: David Simpson

Sent: 23 November 2011 20:15
To: Maggie Dolan

Subject: Post Office response

Dear Maggie, please find attached a Post Office statement and a detailed response to all the
points you have raised with us in recent weeks in regard to the Horizon computer system. We
hope you will fully reflect the Post Office’s view in the programme you are planning.
Regards,

David
POL00338518
POL00338518

David Simpson
Director of News
Royal Mail Group

From: Maggie Dolan [mailt
Sent: 22 November 2011 17:38
To: David Simpson

Subject: Hi from Maggie Dolan

Dear David

RE: Horizon
As discussed we are producing a report for BBC Inside Out on the Post Office's Horizon computer system to be
broadcast on the 28st November 2011.

As discussed already the case studies we have interviewed believe they were treated unfairly.

Graham Ward the postmaster at Rivenhall village in Essex had run a village stores for years. Mr Ward believes
he fell victim to an accounting error which occurred he believes at the point of processing cheques. There was
a discrepancy and he says he was told he was not competent to run his post office.

He says there is no evidence to show where the money has gone. He blames the Horizon computer system for
the loss.

Jenny O'Dell has also lost her post office. She lives at! a _GRO I i I In June 2009 she
says she found a discrepancy of £1000 which continued over a period of months until a loss of £9000 was
detected by the auditors who arrived on the 6th January 2010. She blames the Horizon computer system for

the loss.

Both case studies have taken their cases to Shoosmiths Solicitors who have told BBC Inside Out that they have
86 sub-postmasters wanting to pursue a legal course of action. We have also interviewed Dr Steven Murdoch
a computer expert from Cambridge University who says that it is not possible to rule out the possibility that
what may appear to be fraud could indeed be an accountancy flaw in the computer system. He says the more
challenging types of ‘bugs’ to find are ones that happen at unpredictable times and have unpredictable
results.

Since speaking to you last week we have included an additional case study. lan Warren ran the Post Office at
Castle Hedingham in Essex. He has already been convicted of theft but believes the computer system
malfunctioned. He states in the film that it is impossible to fraudulently make a entry on the Horizon system.

If you would like to put up a spokesperson from the Post Office regarding the ongoing dispute with the
Horizon computer system please let me know otherwise could you please answer the following questions.
POL00338518
POL00338518

Could you answer the following question:
1. One of the case studies says that the Post Office does not allow independent scrutiny of the Horizon
system. Is this the case?

2. Have you identified any operational faults with Horizon or other systems and processes that interface with
it which could be behind some of the shortfall problems sub-postmasters have had?

3. Could you give me a timescale as to when you are likely to answer the questions put to your Managing
Director Paula Vennells by the Government about complaints made about the Horizon system.

4. As the operational responsibility for the Horizon system rests with the Post Office is there anything wrong
with it.

Could you please supply a statement by the end of the day tomorrow 23rd November.
If you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me on the number below.

Kind regards
Maggie Dolan

Maggie Dolan
Producer, Inside Out

Maggie Dolan
Producer, Inside Out

http://www.bbe.co.uk

This e-mail (and any attachments) is confidential and may contain personal views which are not the views of the
BBC unless specifically stated.

If you have received it in error, please delete it from your system.

Do not use, copy or disclose the information in any way nor act in reliance on it and notify the sender
immediately.

Please note that the BBC monitors e-mails sent or received.

Further communication will signify your consent to this.
