IT Directorate PSO Process

Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

Community

Information Security

Policy for Horizon &

Horizon Online

Author Information Security Policy Sue Lowther
Manager
Reviewers Post Office Dave King
Adam Martin
Fujitsu Services Tom Lillywhite
Prism Information Security Team Peter Watts
IT Strategy & Architecture Manager I David Gray
Group Internal Audit Steve Webb
Sign off authority Post Office Head of Security John Scott
Reference configuration POL/HNG/CIS/001

Version 4.32.0
Page 1

POL-BSFF-0223787
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

Operational Baseline
Number
Version 432.0
Status DraftApproved
Classification Working Document
I Date 29/01/2010228 March 2010
Circulation
Document Control
Version History
Version Date Change Details
0.1 Initial Draft
0.2 Response to comments from Fujitsu Services and RMG
Information Security.
1.0 08/06/05 Base-lined
1.1 22/05/08 Restructured to align with ISO17799:2005
1.2 05/09/2008 Update to align with ISO 27001 and incorporate changes
referenced in HNG-X security requirements, v1.6 of LINK ATM
Scheme Security Standard and PCI DSS v1.1.
13 29/01/2010 Changes to reflect Horizon Online development and PCI DSS
v1.2
2.0 2208/03/2010 I Base-lined

Change Control

All changes to this document are to be sent to the Change Controller named below:

Name
Job Title
Business Address

Telephone Number(s)

Version 4.32.0
Page 2

Elaine Hollingsworth-Clarke

PSO Document Management Team Manager
No. 1 Future Walk

West Bars

Chesterfield.

S49 1PF

POL-BSFF-0223787_0001
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

References / Related / Dependent / Parent Documents

Reference Document Title Version Date
Reference
ISO/IEC Information technology - Security
27001:2005 Techniques - Information
Security Management Systems -
Requirements.
ISO/IEC Information technology - Code of
27002:2005 practice for information security
management, (also known as
ISO/IEC 17799:2005).
ISO / IEC Information technology --
27005:2008 Security techniques -- Information
security risk management
ISO/IEC Information technology - Security
24762:2008 techniques - Guidelines for
information and communications.
technology disaster recovery
services
LiNK ASISS__I Link ATM Scheme Information 1.6 Dec 2006
Security Standard
ISO 9564 Personal Identification Number
Parts 1 to 3: (PIN) management and security
Banking
ISO 11568 Banking - Key management
Parts 1 to3 (retail)
APACS Chip & PIN
Recommendation No. 12
PCI DSS Payment Card Industry Data v1.1
Security Standard
Post Office Ltd. Policies
Information Security Policy, Post
Office Ltd
Clear Desk Policy, Post Office
Ltd.
Royal Mail Group Centre Technology & Information Systems policies
e-Handbook: “Your Guide to
Information Security”,
Information Security Intranet site,
RMG
G30 Freedom of Information Act
policy
S1 Information security

Version 4.32.0
Page 3

POL-BSFF-0223787_0002
IT Directorate PSO Process

Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

$2 Investigation and Prosecution
Policy
Royal Mail Group Human
Resources - Personnel Vetting
Policy

S3 Security Policy

S4 Information Classification Policy

S4 Information Classification
Guidelines

S5 Mobile Security Policy

S6 Logical access control Policy

S7 Security Health Check Policy

S8 Wireless Connectivity Policy

s9 Cryptographic Services Policy

S10 Clear Desk Policy

S11 Generic Account Policy

S15 Incident Management Policy

S16 Third Party Access Policy

S17 Security Architecture
Methodology

$19 Personal Computer Backup
Policy

$20 Third Party Provisioning Policy

TI IS/IT Compliance

V4.de Disposal policy

T3 Anti-virus policy

Legal & Regulatory (see also §[ REF _Ref206228986 \r \h ])

Freedom of Information Act 2000
The Data Protection Act 1998
The Official Secrets Act 1989
The Computer Misuse Act 1990
The Copyright, Designs and
Patents Act 1988
Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000
Regulation of Investigatory
Powers Act 2000
Electronic Communications Act
2000 as amended by the
Communications Act 2003

Version +.32.0
Page 4

POL-BSFF-0223787_0003
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Money Laundering Regulations
2003

Electronically Distributed Documents
Any problems, comments or improvement opportunities are to be sent to
Change Controller above. If not receiving this document direct from the
PSO, readers may wish to ensure it is the latest version by checking with
the Change Controller.

Version 4.32.0
Page 5

POL-BSFF-0223787_0004
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Contents
[ TOC \o "1-3" \h\z \u]

Version 4.32.0
Page 6

POL-BSFF-0223787_0005
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

1

Terms and abbreviations

Term Meaning

See §2

1. Introduction

1.1. Purpose and scope

This document provides policy and direction in information security for those
responsible for initiating, implementing or maintaining security for Horizon Online
including its migration from Horizon. This document describes for these systems:

e End-to-end security management process and physical requirements

e End-to-end technical security requirements.

ISO 17799 was updated in 2005 to align with the newly published ISO 27001. This
policy was updated at version 1.1 in order to match the re-organisation of controls
between ISO 17799:2000 (on which version 1.0 of this policy was based) and ISO
17799:2005! (and thus ISO 27001) on which this version is be based.

1.2. Readership

This document is intended for systems and application designers, systems managers,

security and compliance managers associated with Horizon, Horizon Online and its
related systems.

1.3. Document classification

The policy is classified as INTERNAL and may be distributed within relevant
organisations. The policy may refer to associated documents that deal specifically with
sensitive security controls classified as CONFIDENTIAL. Those secondary

CONFIDENTIAL documents may only be distributed and copied on a “need to know”
basis.

ISO 17799:2005 has subsequently been renumbered ISO 27002:2005.

Version 4.32.0

Page 7

POL-BSFF-0223787_0006
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

1.4. Document Review

The owner of the policy is responsible for its maintenance and review - see §[ REF
_Ref206412463 \r \h J.

2. Definitions

For the purposes of this document, the definitions below apply.

The term “must” identifies mandatory policy statements. The term “should” identifies
a recommendation. The term “will” signifies matters that can be assumed.

Where the text requires actions to be taken “promptly”, “regularly” or “periodically”,
domains should perform them in a timescale that reflects the associated security risks.
Where there are contractual or regulatory requirements on Post Office to perform the
actions at a specific frequency, those responsible for performing the actions must be
advised in writing.

Branch staff: Those people who use an Horizon Online or Horizon Branch Terminal.
They consist of clerical staff who actually transact business, administrative staff (e.g. the
sub-postmaster) responsible for managing branch specific aspects of the Horizon or
Horizon Online service and global users who may visit any branch (e.g. auditors and
support engineers).

Branch terminal: A terminal used to enter Horizon or Horizon Online transactions
typically (but not always) located at a branch counter position. The definition includes
back-office Branch Terminals (used for cash accounting etc) and terminals in mobile
offices.

Cardholder Data Environment: A part of the Horizon Online system that possesses
Cardholder Data or Sensitive Authentication Data together with those systems and
segments that directly attach or support cardholder processing, storage, or
transmission. Adequate network segmentation, which isolates systems that store,
process, or transmit Cardholder Data from those that do not, may reduce the scope of
the Cardholder Data Environment and thus the scope of the PCI DSS audit.

Cardholder Data: means the Primary Account Number (PAN) of a payment card or the
PAN plus any of the following:

e cardholder name
* expiration date

e Service Code

° start date

e issue number;

Client: An organisation with which Post Office Limited contracts for the supply of

Version +-32.0
Page 8

POL-BSFF-0223787_0007
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

goods or services delivered to Customers via Horizon / Horizon Online.

Customer: An individual (or organisation) to whom goods or services are delivered via
Horizon / Horizon Online.

Domain supplier: an organisational entity responsible for the systems and applications
under its specific control and operation.

Horizon Online: The information system used to capture and process business
transactions originating in Post Office branches. It extends:
* from the counter positions that provide the interface between the Post Office and
members of the public that use its services,

* to the boundary with specialist service providers such as LINK, Card Account,
DWP and Streamline who are outside the contractual scope of Horizon Online.

Horizon: The information system used to capture and process business transactions
originating in Post Office branches prior to its migration to Horizon Online.

Information security management system (ISMS): That part of an the overall
management system, based on a business risk approach, to establish, implement,
operate, monitor, review, maintain and improve information security.

Information security: the preservation of confidentiality, integrity and availability of
information:
¢ Confidentiality: ensuring that information is accessible only to those authorised
to have access.
e Integrity: safeguarding the accuracy and completeness of information and
processing methods. Integrity controls include those used to protect against fraud
and those that ensure the accountability of individuals.

¢ Availability: ensuring that authorised users have access to information and
associated assets when required
PCI DSS: Payment Card Industry - Data Security Standard

Post Office branch: A location where Horizon Online or Horizon services are offered.
It includes directly managed branches, franchised branches and sub-postoffices.

Risk assessment: assessment of threats to, impacts on and vulnerabilities of information
and information processing facilities and the likelihood of their occurrence

Risk management: the process of identifying, controlling and minimising or
eliminating security risks that may affect information systems, for an acceptable cost.

Sensitive Authentication Data: security related information used to authenticate
cardholders appearing in plain text or otherwise unprotected form. This information
can be any of the following:

Version +.32.0
Page 9

POL-BSFF-0223787_0008
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

e The full contents of the magnetic stripe of a payment card (from the back of a
card, the equivalent from a chip or elsewhere).

e The card-validation value or code (three-digit or four-digit number printed on the
front or back of a payment card) used to verify card-not-present transactions?.

« The personal identification number (PIN) or the encrypted PIN block associated
with a payment card.

The Horizon or Horizon Online community: all domain suppliers involved in the
provision of Horizon or Horizon Online Services, including:

¢ Royal Mail Group Information Systems
¢ Fujitsu services
¢ Post Office Horizon end-to-end service management.

The organisation is shown below.

Post Office Service Management

Fujitsu Services Ltd Royal Mail Group Information
Systems

NOTE: Where this policy refers to the Royal Mail Group, it includes Post Office Ltd
unless the context makes it clear that Post Office Ltd is excluded.

Third party personnel: employees or contractors of a third party.

Third party: An individual or organisation that is neither:
« A domain supplier (or one of its employees or contractors) involved in Horizon
or Horizon Online service delivery, nor
¢ Post Office Limited (or one of its employees or contractors).

User: Anyone involved in Horizon / Horizon Online service delivery, including those
who interact with the Horizon / Horizon Online applications, administrators, system
programmers, network managers, security administrators and Horizon / Horizon
Online terminal operators.

WAN (Wide Area Network): Any communications network that extends outside the
bounds of a domain’s physical security area.

2 Not to be confused with the similarly named field on a magnetic stripe (or its chip equivalent) that
protects the integrity of the magnetic stripe data.

Version +.32.0
Page 10

POL-BSFF-0223787_0009
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

3. Structure of this document

This document follows the 1S027001:2005 categories of control. It is derived from the
control objectives and controls listed in Annex A of IS027001:2005. These objectives and
controls are highlighted in shaded boxes throughout the document.

Where appropriate, the IS027001 controls are expanded to provide a more detailed
policy (based on the 1S027002:2005 Code of Practice) and/or to communicate detailed
control requirements placed on Post Office Limited by its clients.

4. Risk assessment and treatment

All domains must operate a formal process of risk management (of which risk
assessment and risk treatment are a part) as an integral part of an ISO/IEC 27001
compliant Information Security Management System. The process should comply with
ISO/IEC 27005. See §[ REF _Ref206413799 \r \h ] for the role of risk assessment in
identifying the security requirements in this policy.

This policy is based on a risk assessment which assumes:
«There is no access to Horizon / Horizon Online applications from the Internet.
¢ There is no general purpose web-surfing or e-mail facilities at branch terminals

e There is no use of wireless technologies such as Wi-Fi or Bluetooth within the
Horizon / Horizon Online system boundary.?

5. Security policy

Post Office Ltd.’s support and commitment to information security is demonstrated by
enforcing and maintaining the information security policy defined in this document.

5.1. Information security policy
5.1.1. The mandate

Information Security is mandated by Royal Mail Group; it is not an option.
Accordingly, all Post Office Ltd. personnel and its suppliers have a responsibility for
Information Security and are bound by a number of legal obligations.

Security is only as strong as the weakest component. The Horizon and Horizon Online
community must individually and together maintain the appropriate level of
information security necessary for the end-to-end Horizon / Horizon Online services.

3 This does not prohibit the use of wide area networks that may use wireless technology and are
operated by licensed public telecoms operators.

Version 4.32.0
Page 11

POL-BSFF-0223787_0010
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

5.1.2. Objective

The Horizon Community Information Security Policy objective is to ensure that all the
Horizon and Horizon Online systems are protected from significant threats such that
the business needs of Post Office Ltd. can be met economically, efficiently and
effectively.

Each domain in the Horizon Community must establish and abide by the following
policy requirements:

¢ to maintain an organisation to direct and manage IT security for that part of the
Horizon / Horizon Online which is within its remit.

¢ to ensure that the risks are reduced to an acceptable level by applying the
appropriate protective measures, which are based on risk assessment, the
information classification scheme and which conform to agreed standards

* to ensure Post Office Ltd are advised of all relevant breaches of security together
with recommendations for recovery

* — toensure that all personnel involved with Horizon / Horizon Online are aware of
their responsibilities under this information security policy (and associated.
practices and procedures), and that they fully understand those responsibilities
including their legal obligations

¢ to monitor and review information security arrangements to provide assurance
that policy, standards and procedures remain relevant and effective.

Control A.5.1.1: Information Security Document

The mandatory elements of this policy set out the minimum level of security to be
adopted throughout the Community, and represent industry best practice.

The policy recognises that the measures taken by each domain may vary according to
the responsibilities and risks associated with the domain. Each domain must establish
and document an information security policy, consistent with this policy, which sets out
the policy and responsibilities for information security within the domain.

5.1.3. ISO/IEC 27001 baseline

Royal Mail Group requires that Post Office Ltd. implements and operates an
Information Security Management System (ISMS) in accordance with ISO/IEC
27001:2005, Information technology — Security techniques — Information security
management systems — Requirements, together with other approved technical and
procedural standards where appropriate.

Accordingly, the Horizon / Horizon Online community must apply ISO/IEC 27001 as
the baseline for managing Information Security in their domain. In interpreting the
controls required by 1S027001, the recommendations in ISO/IEC 27002 must be
considered a statement of best practice by each domain, unless explicitly modified in

Version +-32.0
Page 12

POL-BSFF-0223787_0011
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

this document.

Post Office Ltd. requires all parties to apply the mandatory requirements and controls
specified in this document.

There is no specific requirement to undertake certification to ISO/IEC 27001. Domains
contracted to comply with ISO 27001 should seek formal certification to ISO 27001 in
order to be able to demonstrate compliance with the contractual requirement.

It is the domain suppliers' responsibility to identify and comply with the relevant
standards.

5.2. Review and evaluation

Control A5.1.2: Review of the Information Security Policy

The controls documented in this document are classified as either mandatory or
recommended. The mandatory controls must be complied with unless the Post Office
Ltd Information Security Manager agrees a waiver. Waivers will only apply for a
limited, and defined, period.

This policy will be reviewed annually. The review process will be capable of
responding to any changes affecting the risk assessment. The review will consider:

e The policy's effectiveness, demonstrated by the nature, number and impact of
recorded security incidents

e The cost of controls and their impact on business efficiency
e The effects of changes in technology and processes
« New and emerging risks.

The owner of the policy is responsible for its maintenance and review.

6. Organisation of information security

6.1. Internal organisation

Objective: To manage information security within the Horizon / Horizon Online
community.

An Information Security Management System must be established within each domain
to monitor and control information security within the domain. Suitable management
forums with management leadership should be established to review the domain’s
information security policy, assign security roles and co-ordinate the implementation of
security for the domain. Where appropriate, sources of specialist information security

Version 4.32.0
Page 13

POL-BSFF-0223787_0012
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

advice must be established and made available within the domain. Contacts with
external security specialists should be developed to keep up with industrial trends,
monitor standards and assessment methods and provide suitable liaison points when
dealing with security incidents. A multi-disciplinary approach to information security is
encouraged, e.g. involving the co-operation and collaboration of managers, users,
administrators, application designers, auditors and security staff, as well as specialist
skills in areas such as insurance and risk management.

6.1.1. Management commitment to information security

Control A6.1.1: Management must actively support security within their domain through
clear direction, demonstrated commitment, explicit assignment, and acknowledgment of
information security responsibilities.

Information security should be a business responsibility shared by all who have a
responsibility for delivering the Horizon / Horizon Online service. A management
forum should therefore be considered by each domain to ensure that there is clear
direction and visible management support for security initiatives. That forum should
promote security within the domain through appropriate commitment and adequate
resourcing. The forum may be part of an existing management body. Typically, such a
forum undertakes the following:

a) reviewing the effectiveness of the implementation of the domain’s information security
policy and controls.

b) approving overall security responsibilities;

c) monitoring significant changes in the exposure of information assets to major threats;

d) reviewing and monitoring information security incidents;

e) approving major initiatives to enhance information security and information security

awareness.

In each domain, one manager must be identified to be responsible for all information
security activities related to that domain’s delivery of the Horizon / Horizon Online
service.

6.1.2. Information security co-ordination

Control A6.1.2: Information security activities must be co-ordinated by representatives
from different parts of each domain with relevant roles and job functions.

Within each domain an experienced security professional must have the responsibility
for coordinating security for that part of Horizon Horizon Online that is within the
domain’s remit. Tasks must include:

a) agreeing specific roles and responsibilities for information security within that part of
the Horizon / Horizon Online that is within the domain’s remit;

Version 4.32.0
Page 14

POL-BSFF-0223787_0013
IT Directorate
Community Ini

POL00397117

POL00397117

PSO Process
formation Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

b)

8)

h)

agreeing specific methodologies and processes for information security within that part
of Horizon / Horizon Online that is within the domain’s remit, e.g. risk assessment,
security classification system;

agreeing and supporting information security initiatives within that part of Horizon /
Horizon Online that is within the domain’s remit, e.g. the security awareness
programme,

ensuring that security is part of the domain’s change management process for Horizon
and Horizon Online;

reviewing Horizon /Horizon Online-related information security incidents arising
within the domain and communicated to the domain, agreeing a classification of the
severity of each and, where appropriate, agreeing a recommended recovery plan and
coordinating recovery within the domain;

liaison with the Post Office Head of Information Security,

promoting the visibility of business support for information security throughout that
part of the Horizon / Horizon Online that is within the domain’s remit;

Maintaining an awareness of good security practice within the industry and promoting
it throughout that part of the Horizon / Horizon Online that is within the domain’s
remit.

6.1.3. Allocation of information security responsibilities

Control A6.1.3: All information security responsibilities must be clearly defined.

Responsibilities for the protection of individual assets and for carrying out specific
security processes must be clearly defined and documented. Each domain must
document and disseminate a system information security policy, consistent with this
policy, which provides general guidance on the allocation of security roles and
responsibilities in its organisation. This must be supplemented, where necessary, with
more detailed guidance for specific sites, systems or services. Local responsibilities for
individual physical and information assets and security processes, such as business
continuity planning, must be clearly defined and documented.

Areas for which each manager is responsible must be clearly stated; in particular the
following must take place:

a) The various assets and security processes associated with each individual system must

be identified and clearly defined.

b) The manager responsible for each asset or security process must be agreed and the

details of this responsibility must be documented.

c) Authorisation levels must be clearly defined and documented.

Version +.32.0

Page 15

POL-BSFF-0223787_0014
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

6.1.4. Authorisation process for information processing facilities

Control A6.1.4: A management authorisation process for new information processing
facilities shall be defined and implemented.

The ISO/IEC 27001 control for authorisation of new information systems is not relevant to Horizon
/ Horizon Online as it is an existing system. See §[ REF _Ref199309597 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT I re authorisations of changes to Horizon / Horizon Online.

6.1.5. Confidentiality agreements

Control A6.1.5: Requirements for confidentiality or non-disclosure agreements reflecting
the organization’s needs for the protection of information must be identified and regularly
reviewed.

All users of Horizon / Horizon Online facilities must sign a confidentiality (non-
disclosure) agreement emphasizing their security responsibilities either as part of their
contract of employment or as a separate agreement. Employees must sign such an
agreement as part of their initial terms and conditions of employment.

Casual staff and third party users not already covered by an existing contract
(containing the confidentiality agreement) must be required to sign a confidentiality
agreement.

Confidentiality agreements should be reviewed when there are changes to terms of
employment or contract, particularly when employees are due to leave the organisation
or contracts are due to end.

6.1.6. Specialist information security advice

Control A6.1.6: Appropriate contacts with relevant authorities must be maintained.

There must be a source of information security expertise within each domain. Where
the expert has insufficient experience to advise on a particular issue, suitable external
advisers must be used.

The information security adviser or equivalent point of contact should be consulted at
the earliest possible stage following a suspected serious security incident or breach to
provide a source of expert guidance or investigative resources. Although most internal
security investigations will normally be carried out under management control, the
information security adviser may be called on to advise, lead or conduct the
investigation.

Version 4.32.0
Page 16

POL-BSFF-0223787_0015
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

6.1.7. Cooperation between organisations

Control A6.1.7:; Appropriate contacts with special interest groups or other specialist
security forums and professional associations must be maintained.

Post Office Ltd will maintain appropriate contacts with law enforcement authorities,
regulatory bodies and others to ensure that this information security policy is effective.

6.1.8. Independent review of information security

Control A6.1.8: The organization’s approach to managing information security and its
implementation (i.e. control objectives, controls, policies, processes, and procedures for
information security) must be reviewed independently at planned intervals, or when
significant changes to the security implementation occur.

The Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online and all
referenced technical controls will be subject to quality checks by an external qualified
body and Horizon / Horizon Online will be audited against the policy and technical
controls.

Each domain’s information security policy sets out the policy and responsibilities for
information security within its remit. Its implementation must be reviewed
independently to provide assurance that organisational practices properly reflect the
policy, and that it is feasible and effective.

Such a review may be carried out by an internal audit function, an independent

manager or a third party organisation specialising in such reviews, where these
candidates have the appropriate skills and experience.

6.2. External parties

Objective: To maintain the security of information processing facilities and information
assets accessed, processed, communicated to or managed by third parties.

6.2.1. Identification of risks related to external parties

Control A6.2.1: The risks to the organization’s information and information processing
facilities from business processes involving external parties must be identified and
appropriate controls implemented before granting access.

Access to Horizon / Horizon Online information processing facilities must be
controlled. There must be a demonstrable need for third party access. A risk
assessment must be carried out to determine the security implications and control
requirements for any forms of physical or electronic access by third parties. In
particular, this policy is based on risk assessments that assume that:

Version 4.32.0
Page 17

POL-BSFF-0223787_0016
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

e Any third party access to transaction data must be “read-only” and must not
breach the confidentiality requirements of this policy.

e Transactions initiated at a Branch Terminal must have a corresponding
application process in Horizon / Horizon Online and must not use Horizon /
Horizon Online only as a communications path to business applications operated
by third parties. As a minimum, the application must address audit trail and
financial reconciliation (see §15.3).

Any variations from these assumptions must be carefully explored in the risk
assessment. Additional controls to address any risks arising from the assessment must
be documented and agreed with Post Office Information Security.

Third party access to systems shall also mean any form of electronic access to Horizon /
Horizon Online systems or services from outside the Horizon / Horizon Online estate
and data centres without limitation and it must be taken to include all members of all
suppliers and all Post Office users other than authorized branch staff.

On-site contractors

On-site third parties must be identified and documented. A risk assessment must be
conducted wherever any on-site third party services are proposed.

All security requirements resulting from third party access or internal controls must be
reflected in the third party contract. Where there is a special need for confidentiality of
the information, non-disclosure agreements must be used.

Access to information and information processing facilities by third parties must not be
provided until the appropriate controls have been implemented and a contract has been
signed defining the terms for the connection or access.

6.2.2. Addressing Security when dealing with customers

Control A6.2.2: All identified security requirements must be addressed before giving
Post Office customers or clients access to Horizon / Horizon Online information or
assets.

Post Office customers must not be granted remote access to Horizon / Horizon Online
information or assets. Security requirements for any customer operated terminals
connected to Horizon / Horizon Online must be identified and specified prior to
contracting for their supply and installation.

Security requirements for clients of Post Office Limited must be addressed as specified
in §[ REF _Ref205721619 \r \h ] and §[ REF _Ref205721677 \r \h J.

Version 4.32.0
Page 18

POL-BSFF-0223787_0017
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

6.2.3. Addressing security in third party agreements

Control A6.2.3: Agreements with third parties involving accessing, processing,
communicating or managing Post Office information or Horizon / Horizon Online
information processing facilities, or adding products or services to information
processing facilities must cover all relevant security requirements.

If third parties are to be provided with access to Post Office information and/or
Horizon / Horizon Online systems there must be a formal contract containing, or
referring to, all the security requirements to ensure compliance with this policy. The
contract must ensure that there is no misunderstanding between the domain and the
third party. See the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for a checklist list of
security-relevant terms.

Domain suppliers should require third parties to implement an Information Security
Management System compliant with ISO/IEC 27001. Where the third party has access
to Cardholder Data, third parties must be required to comply with the Payment Card
Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and acknowledge that they are responsible
for the security of all Cardholder Data and Sensitive Authentication Data that they
possess.

For all information systems developed and implemented for and on behalf of Royal
Mail Group and Post Office Ltd, by their internal suppler, the group standard Third
Party Access Policy (S16) must be applied.

Where any outsourcing of aspects of Horizon / Horizon Online takes place, the security
requirements defined in this policy must be addressed in the contract between the
parties, including:

a) How legal and regulatory requirements are to be met, e.g. data protection
legislation (see §[ REF _Ref206228986 \n \h }).

b) What arrangements will be in place to ensure that all parties involved in the
outsourcing, including subcontractors, are aware of their security responsibilities
(see §[ REF _Ref206229012 \n \h }).

c) How the integrity and confidentiality of the Post Office Ltd.’s business assets
(including data) are to be maintained and tested.

d) Segregation between Post Office Ltd components and any other systems
operated or managed by the contractor, e.g. on behalf of Post Office Ltd
competitors (see also §[ REF _Ref199331541 \n \h J, §[ REF _Ref199331482 \n \h
], and §[ REF _Ref199224556 \n \h J).

e) How security incidents are to be reported and (where necessary) escalated (see §[
REF _Ref206229086 \n \h )).

f) What physical and logical controls will be used to restrict and limit the access to
the Post Office Ltd.’s sensitive business information to authorised users (see §[
REF _Ref199320474 \n \h J).

Version 4.32.0
Page 19

POL-BSFF-0223787_0018
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

g) How the availability of services is to be maintained in the event of equipment
failure, communications failure or a disaster (see §[ REF _Ref199233886 \n \h ]
and §[ REF _Ref204169468 \n \h J).

h) What levels of physical security are to be provided for outsourced equipment
(see §[ REF _Ref206229156 \n \h J).

i) The processes for monitoring and reviewing security arrangements (see §[ REF
_Ref251946424 \r \h}).

j) The right of audit (see §[ REF _Ref206229176 \n \h ]).

The contract must allow the security requirements and security procedures to be
expanded in documentation to be agreed between the two parties.

The following additional security requirements apply in the event that a domain
supplier wishes to outsource any development work for Horizon Online offshore. The
domain supplier must carry out an assessment of the potential risks involved in such
work being undertaken offshore. The domain supplier must agree with Post Office
Information Security details of the processes, procedures, systems and controls the
developer has (or intends to put in place) to address the risks identified in the
assessment prior to any such development taking place. [SEC-3270]

See also §[ REF _Ref206229223 \n \h ], third party service delivery management.

7. Asset classification and control

4

7.1. Responsibility for assets

Objective: To maintain appropriate protection of Post Office and Horizon / Horizon
Online assets

7.1.1. Inventory of assets

Control A7.1.1: All assets must be clearly identified and an inventory of all important
assets drawn up and maintained.

Each domain within the Horizon / Horizon Online community must maintain an
inventory of its assets.4 It must be possible to identify assets from their entry in the
inventory e.g. by by clearly marking physical assets.

Assets identified for Horizon / Horizon Online include:

e Information assets: databases and data files, system documentation, user
manuals, training material, operational or support procedures, continuity plans,

This supports the risk management process by providing a record of asset value and importance.

Version 4.32.0
Page 20

POL-BSFF-0223787_0019
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

fallback arrangements, archived information

« Software assets: application software, system software, development tools and
utilities

e Physical assets: computer equipment, communications, magnetic media , other
technical equipment (power supplies, air-conditioning units), furniture,
accommodation

e Services: computing and communications services, general utilities.

7.1.2. Ownership of assets

Control A7.1.2: All information and assets associated with information processing
facilities must be ‘owned’ by a designated part of the organisation.

Each asset or group of assets identified in §7.1.1 must be clearly identified, along with
its ownership within the domain, security classification and current location. The term
ownership refers to an individual or entity that has approved management
responsibility for controlling the production, development, maintenance, use and
security of the assets. It does not mean that the person actually has property rights to
the asset.

7.1.3. Acceptable use of assets

Control A7.1.3: Rules for the acceptable use of information and assets associated with
information processing facilities must be identified, documented, and implemented.

See §[ REF _Ref206223802 \n \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for technologies that are not currently
supported under this policy. Also see §[ REF _Ref206225085 \n \h \* MERGEFORMAT I for the

policy concerning equipment off site.

7.2. Information security classification

Objective: To ensure that information assets receive an appropriate level of protection.

7.2.1. Classification guidelines

Control A7.2.1: Information must be classified in terms of its value, legal requirements,
sensitivity and criticality to the organization.

Horizon / Horizon Online information that is generated, processed, communicated or
stored within the Horizon / Horizon Online community, either physically or
electronically, must be assessed to identify its level of security classification and
determine the protective controls to be applied.

Royal Mail Group’s Information Classification Policy (S4) and associated guidelines

Version 4.32.0
Page 21

POL-BSFF-0223787_0020
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

must be used for this purpose. This defines two levels of confidentiality, for which the
classification given below must be used:

e CONFIDENTIAL: Information that has been assessed to be of a sensitive nature
and likely to cause damage following unauthorised disclosure. Personal data (as
defined by the Data Protection Act) is classified as confidential. Personal data
includes customer account numbers and any transaction data associated with
them. FAD codes are sometimes used for authentication purposes and must
therefore be treated as CONFIDENTIAL. Transaction records that do not identify
a person are confidential on bulk data/reports only. Transaction receipts for
individual transactions do not need to be labelled as CONFIDENTIAL, since they
are intended as a receipt for a transaction by an individual.

e STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL: Information meeting the classification standards
of government departments, the security services, clients, or assessed to be so
sensitive that unauthorised disclosure would cause acute organisational damage.
Information identifying cash handling staff, routes and/or timings is STRICTLY
CONFIDENTIAL. PIN data and all encryption keys are also interpreted as
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.

All other information must be classified as INTERNAL unless specifically authorised
for release.

There are also legal requirements concerning the release of information - see §15.1 for
more information.

7.2.2. Information labelling and handling

Control A7.2.2: An appropriate set of procedures for information labelling and handling
must be developed and implemented in accordance with the classification scheme
adopted by the domain.

All documentation, displayed output and storage media from systems containing
information classified as CONFIDENTIAL or STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL must carry
an appropriate classification label.

A chain of custody must be established for any such information and any security
relevant event logged.

8. Human resources security

8.1. Security in job definition and resourcing

Objective: To ensure that employees, contractors and third party users understand their
responsibilities, and are suitable for the roles they are considered for, and to reduce the
risks of human error, theft, fraud or misuse of facilities.

Version 4.32.0
Page 22

POL-BSFF-0223787_0021
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

8.1.1. Roles and responsibilities

Control A8.1.1: Security roles and responsibilities of employees, contractors and third
party users must be defined and documented in accordance with each domain’s
information security policy.

Security responsibilities must be addressed at the recruitment stage, included in
contracts, and monitored during an individual’s employment.

Security roles and responsibilities must be documented in individual job descriptions.
The description must include any general responsibilities for implementing or
maintaining security policy as well as any specific responsibilities for the protection of
particular assets, or for the execution of particular security processes or activities.

8.1.2. Screening

Control A8.1.2: Background verification checks on all candidates for employment,
contractors, and third party users must be carried out in accordance with relevant laws,
regulations and ethics, and proportional to the business requirements, the classification
of the information to be accessed, and the perceived risks.

Potential recruits must be adequately screened, especially for sensitive roles.

Verification checks on permanent staff must be carried out at the time of job
applications. For Royal Mail Group and Post Office Ltd domains, reference should be
made to Royal Mail Group vetting policy (owned by Human Resources)

Where a job, either on initial appointment or on promotion, involves the person having
access to Post Office business data or other sensitive information, e.g. financial
information or highly confidential information, screening must include checks on
identity, qualifications and financial circumstances. Criminal record checks must be
performed where legally permitted [SEC-3255]. A credit check must also be conducted.
For staff holding positions of considerable authority this financial and criminal record
checks should be repeated periodically.

A similar screening process must be carried out for contractors and temporary staff.
Where these staff are provided through an agency, the contract with the agency must
clearly specify the agency's responsibilities for screening and the notification
procedures they need to follow if screening has not been completed or if the results give
cause for doubt or concern.

For Royal Mail Group and Post Office Ltd domains, if any aspect of Horizon / Horizon
Online is classified as Strictly Confidential, it may be necessary to carry out the National
Security vetting procedures as per the Royal Mail Group’s Vetting Policy. The Head of
Security for Post Office Ltd. must be consulted before such vetting procedures are
invoked.

Version 4.32.0
Page 23

POL-BSFF-0223787_0022
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

8.1.3. Terms and conditions of employment

Control A8.1.3: As part of their contractual obligation, employees, contractors and third
party users must agree and sign the terms and conditions of their employment contract,
which must state their and the domain’s responsibilities for information security.

Although terms and conditions of employment are likely to be different in each domain,
employees must be aware of their responsibilities in respect of information security and
protecting organisational assets. Also see the requirement for confidentiality
agreements in §[ REF _Ref206237551 \r \h ] and security awareness training in §[ REF
_Ref206238952 \r \h J.

8.2. During Employment

Objective: To ensure that all employees, contractors and third party users are aware of
information security threats and concerns, their responsibilities and liabilities, and are
equipped to support the domain’s security policy in the course of their normal work,
and to reduce the risk of human error.

8.2.1. Management responsibilities

Control A8.2.1: Management must require employees, contractors and third party users
to apply security in accordance with established policies and procedures of the domain.

8.2.2. Information security awareness, education and training

Control A8.2.2: All employees of each domain and, where relevant, contractors and
third party users must receive appropriate awareness training and regular updates in
the domain’s policies and procedures, as relevant for their job function.

All staff including employees, contract staff and third party personnel must receive
adequate training on how to:

* operate the technology and information systems provided to them

* understand the importance of information security (including the security of all
personal data - see §[ REF _Ref206236498 \r \h ]),

* use the security features provided within their information systems,

* select, manage and safeguard passwords (see §[ REF _Ref204163435 \r \h ]),

* prevent the spread of malicious software and data (see §[ REF _Ref199310581 \r
\h),

e identify and safeguard important records from loss, destruction and falsification
(see §[ REF _Ref199325690 \r \h ]),

¢ identify and report information security incidents (see §[ REF _Ref206236896 \r

Version 4.32.0
Page 24

POL-BSFF-0223787_0023
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

\h J), and
* ensure the physical security of their desktop and other information assets.

A formal security awareness program must be established to educate employees,
contract staff and third party personnel on appointment (see §[ REF _Ref206237403 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT )) and at scheduled intervals thereafter. The content of
security awareness programs should be related to the current issues detected by the
monitoring processes within Information Security Management System. The
importance of the security of personal data (including Cardholder Data) must be
emphasised at least annually.

For the Royal Mail Group and Post Office Ltd. domains, all employees must be aware of
the contents of the e-Handbook on the Information Security Intranet site and undertake
the Information Security user-awareness training module, when available. System
owners must be aware of the contents of the System Owners Manual on the Information
Security intranet site.

Information Security training and awareness must be made available to Branch staff as
a mandatory specific subject area within any Horizon / Horizon Online training facility.

8.2.3. Disciplinary Process

Control A8.2.3: There must be a formal disciplinary process for employees who have
committed a security breach.

Each of the Horizon / Horizon Online domains must have their own disciplinary
processes to manage violations of security policy and procedure. At a minimum the
disciplinary process acts as an effective deterrent to employees who might otherwise be
inclined to disregard security procedures.

The process must also ensure correct, fair treatment for employees who are suspected of
committing serious or persistent breaches of security.

8.3. Termination or change of employment

Objective: To ensure that employees, contractors and third party users exit an
organization or change employment in an orderly manner.

8.3.1. Termination responsi ies

Control A8.3.1: Responsibilities for performing employment termination or change of
employment must be clearly defined and assigned.

Version 4.32.0
Page 25

POL-BSFF-0223787_0024
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

8.3.2. Return of assets

Control A8.3.2: All employees, contractors and third party users must return all of the
domain’s assets in their possession upon termination of their employment, contract or
agreement.

Domains must ensure that any physical or software assets under their control and
which belong to Post Office Limited or the Royal Mail Group are returned to the
domain upon termination or redeployment outside the Horizon / Horizon Online
domain. Information assets must be either returned or, at management discretion,
securely destroyed (see §[ REF _Ref204171048 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] and §[ REF
_Ref204169269 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]).

8.3.3. Removal of access rights

Control A8.3.3: The access rights of all employees, contractors and third party users to
information and information processing facilities must be removed upon termination of
their employment, contract or agreement, or adjusted upon change of role.

Also see §[ REF _Ref199319275 \n \h ] - Access control policy.

9. Physical and environmental security

9.1. Secure areas

Objective: To prevent unauthorised physical access, damage and interference to
business premises and information.

9.1.1. Physical security perimeter

Control A9.1.1: Security perimeters (barriers such as walls, card controlled entry gates
or manned reception desks) must be used to protect areas that contain information and
information processing facilities.

Central Facilities

Horizon / Horizon Online data centres and any location hosting other Horizon /
Horizon Online infrastructure facilities must be protected by at least two layers of
physical security:

e An outer Security Perimeter that restricts access by the general public.

e  Aninner Secure Area that applies additional restrictions and which must be
located within a Security Perimeter.

Version 4.32.0
Page 26

POL-BSFF-0223787_0025
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Horizon / Horizon Online information processing facilities must be housed in secure
areas, protected by a defined Security Perimeter, with appropriate security barriers and
entry controls. They must be physically protected from unauthorised access, damage
and interference. The protection provided must be commensurate with the identified
risks. A clear desk and clear screen policy is recommended to reduce the risk of
unauthorised access or damage to papers, media and information processing facilities
(see §11.3.3).

Secure Areas must be used for housing all processing, storage and networking
equipment and all network termination points used by the Horizon / Horizon Online
service. Secure areas must also be used to house key management facilities and master
consoles (i.e., interactive devices providing a command interface to the operating
system without having identification and authentication of the operator).

Users of shared information processing facilities must not be located in the same secure
area as the information processing facility. They may be located within the same
Security Perimeter.

Domains are referred to ISO/IEC 27002 for specific controls covering the physical
security perimeter.

Branch Facilities

Horizon / Horizon Online facilities located in branches must be considered to be in an
insecure area. Facilities located behind the screen designed to protect branch staff and
valuables may be considered to be secure from general public access but still require
controls to protect against unauthorised access by Branch Staff. See also the policy on
siting of branch equipment in §[ REF _Ref199326016 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

9.1.2. Physical entry controls

Control A9.1.2: Secure areas must be protected by appropriate entry controls to ensure
that only authorized personnel are allowed access.

a) The date and time of entry and departure of all visitors must be recorded and retained
securely for at least three months. All visitors must be supervised unless their access
has been previously approved; they should only be granted access for specific,
authorized purposes and must be issued with instructions on the security requirements
of the area and on emergency procedures.

b) Access to areas where sensitive information is processed or stored must be controlled
and restricted to authorized persons only; authentication controls, e.g. access control
card plus PIN, must be used to authorize and validate all access; an audit trail of all
access must be securely maintained;

c) Cameras must be used to monitor sensitive areas. Collected data must be audited and
correlated with other entries. Collected data must be stored for at least three months,
unless otherwise restricted by law.

Version +-32.0
Page 27

POL-BSFF-0223787_0026
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

d) All employees, contractors and third party users and all visitors must be required to
wear some form of visible identification and should immediately notify security
personnel if they encounter unescorted visitors and anyone not wearing visible
identification;

e) All physical access tokens / identity badges must be surrendered on leaving the
premises or when no longer valid.

f) Third party support service personnel must be granted restricted access to secure areas
or sensitive information processing facilities only when required; this access must be
authorized and monitored;

g) Access rights to secure areas should be regularly reviewed and updated, and revoked
when necessary (see §[ REF _Ref204166900 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]).

9.1.3. Securing offices, rooms and facilities

Control A9.1.3: Physical security for offices, rooms, and facilities must be designed and

applied.

Domains are referred to ISOMEC 27002 for specific controls covering securing offices, rooms and
facilities.

9.1.4. Protecting against external and environmental threats

Control A9.1.4: Physical protection against damage from fire, flood, earthquake,
explosion, civil unrest, and other forms of natural or man-made disaster must be
designed and applied.

Equipment must be physically protected from environmental hazards. Special controls
may be required to protect against hazards and to safeguard supporting facilities, such
as the electrical supply and cabling infrastructure.

9.1.5. Working in secure areas

Control A9.1.5: Physical protection and guidelines for working in secure areas must be
designed and applied.

Domains are referred to ISOMEC 27002 for specific controls covering working in secure areas.

9.1.6. Public access, delivery and loading areas

Control A9.1.6: Access points such as delivery and loading areas and other points where
unauthorized persons may enter the premises must be controlled and, if possible, isolated
from information processing facilities to avoid unauthorized access.

Domains are referred to ISOMEC 27002 for specific controls covering isolated delivery and loading
areas.

Version 4.32.0
Page 28

POL-BSFF-0223787_0027
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

9.2. Equipment security

Objective: To prevent loss, damage or compromise of assets and interruption to
business activities.

9.2.1. Equipment siting and protection

Control A9.2.1: Equipment must be sited or protected to reduce the risks from
environmental threats and hazards, and opportunities for unauthorized access.

General Policy on Equipment Siting & Protection

Equipment must be physically protected from security threats and environmental
hazards (see also Section §[ REF _Ref204167843 \r \h ]). Protection of equipment
(including network access and termination points) is necessary to reduce the risk of
unauthorised access to data and to protect against loss or damage. This must also
consider equipment siting and disposal. Domains are referred to the corresponding
section of ISO/IEC 27002 for specific controls covering equipment siting and protection.
Also see the branch policy below.

For Horizon Online, all PIN Data Processing Devices, used in the Data Centres, must
comply with the requirements of Federal Information Processing Standard Publication
140-2, Security Level 3 or higher (FIPS PUB 140-2 Level 3) [SEC-3217].

Branch Policy on Equipment Siting & Protection

For Horizon and Horizon Online equipment located in Branches, the following
additional policy statements apply:

a) All Counter clerk operated equipment e.g. Branch Terminal equipment, printers, smart
card or magnetic stripe readers etc, whether in a secure or open area, must be sited
such that information and data is visible only by authorised operators. This represents
no change in Post Office practice or policies for existing secure screened locations but
must be addressed in any open offices or mobile installations.

b) All Branch Terminals must have a facility to quickly and simply suspend operation of
the terminal e.g. in the event a clerk has to leave it momentarily. Operation must only
resume once the operator has been re-authenticated or another operator is
authenticated in accordance with the access control policy.

c) PIN pads must be sited such that the cardholder can prevent anyone from observing
the PIN value as it is being entered. The installation must take account of any video
surveillance cameras so that PIN entry cannot be observed and/or recorded. See the
APACS Chip & PIN Recommendation No. 12 for further advice on assuring cardholder
privacy at the counter. This represents no change in Post Office practice or policies for
existing secure screened locations but must be addressed in any open offices or mobile
installations.

Version 4.32.0
Page 29

POL-BSFF-0223787_0028
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

d) The configuration of Branch Terminals must be strictly controlled such that branch
staff are unable to alter the configuration or run applications other than those
specifically authorized as part of the Horizon / Horizon Online service.

e) Consideration must be given to the siting and protection of branch networking
facilities, including WAN termination points, especially where such facilities are not
located behind a secure screen. Where there is a significant risk arising form
unauthorised access by the public or by Branch Staff, the facilities must be physically
protected.

f) Consideration must be given to the security of Branch Terminal cables and ports so as
to minimise the opportunity to intercept or capture clear text data passing through or
between terminal components or ports.

9.2.2. Supporting Utilities

Control A9.2.2: Equipment must be protected from power failures and other
disruptions caused by failures in supporting utilities.

Equipment in data centres and associated support must be protected. Equipment in
Branches does not need protection. Domains are referred to the corresponding section
in ISO/IEC 27002 for specific controls covering utilities such as power supplies,
telecommunications, water supplies, and heating / ventilation.

9.2.3. Cabling Security

Control A9.2.3: Power and telecommunications cabling carrying data or supporting
information services must be protected from interception or damage.

Domains are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for specific controls covering
cabling security. See [ REF _Ref199326016 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT J](f) for cabling security in
Branches.

9.2.4. Equipment maintenance

Control A9.2.4: Equipment must be correctly maintained to ensure its continued
availability and integrity.

Domains are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for specific controls covering
equipment maintenance.

9.2.5. Security of equipment off-premises

Control A9.2.4: Security must be applied to off-site equipment taking into account the
different risks of working outside the domain’s premises.

For the Royal Mail Group domain, all movement of equipment by Royal Mail Group
staff and third parties must be controlled by effective measures commensurate with the

Version 4.32.0
Page 30

POL-BSFF-0223787_0029
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

value of the equipment and sensitivity of the data it might contain.

For Royal Mail Group owned assets on customer/supplier sites, the Mobile Security
Policy (S5) and the Mobile Security Guidelines must be observed. Post Office Ltd.
reserves the right to examine the suitability of all third party sites. See §[ REF
_Ref 199326016 \n \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for specific controls for Branch Terminals

9.2.6. Secure disposal or re-use of equipment

Control A9.2.6: All items of equipment containing storage media must be checked to
ensure that any sensitive data and licensed software has been removed or securely
overwritten prior to disposal.

For all domains, reuse of devices or media containing plain text PINs, keys or any data
that could lead to their exposure must be controlled as required by ISO 9564 and ISO
11568.

Storage devices containing operational business data or other sensitive information
must be physically destroyed or securely overwritten rather than using the standard
delete function. All items of equipment containing storage media, e.g. fixed hard disks,
must be checked prior to disposal to ensure that any sensitive data and licensed
software have been removed or overwritten. Damaged storage devices containing
sensitive data may require a risk assessment to determine if the items should be
destroyed, repaired or discarded.

Paper records and reports containing operational business data or other sensitive
information must be physically destroyed by cross-cut shredding, incineration or

pulping.

For the Royal Mail Group domain, Disposal Policy (V4.dc) must be observed. Storage
media must not be incinerated, due to the toxicity of the fumes released into the
atmosphere. Re-use of storage devices that contain sensitive information must be
preceded by secure deletion and overwriting. Advice can be obtained from Royal Mail
Group Information Security on secure deletion.

9.2.7. Removal of property

Control A9.2.7: Equipment, information or software should not be taken off-site without
prior authorisation.

Equipment, information or software should not be taken off site without authorisation.
Where necessary and appropriate, equipment should be logged out and logged back in
when returned. Spot checks should be undertaken to detect unauthorised removal of
property. Individuals should be made aware that spot checks will take place.

The removal of any media (including tapes, disks, cassettes and printed reports)

Version 4.32.0
Page 31

POL-BSFF-0223787_0030
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

containing CONFIDENTIAL or STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL data from secure areas
must be authorised by management (see §[ REF _Ref204171366 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT }).

10. Communications and operations management

10.1. Operational procedures and responsibilities

Objective: To ensure the correct and secure operation of information processing
facilities.

Responsibilities and procedures for the management and operation of all Horizon /
Horizon Online information processing facilities must be established. This includes the
development of appropriate operating instructions and incident response procedures.
Segregation of duties must be implemented, where appropriate, to reduce the risk of
negligent or deliberate system misuse.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for
guidance on implementing the controls in this section, which is subject to the specific
provisions, interpretations and highlights below.

10.1.1. I Documented operating procedures

Control A10.1.1: Operating procedures must be documented, maintained, and made
available to all users who need them.

The operating procedures identified by the security policy must be documented and
maintained. Operating procedures must be treated as formal documents and changes
authorised by management (see §[ REF _Ref199240880 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT }).

Documented procedures must also be prepared for system housekeeping activities
associated with information processing and communication facilities, such as computer
start-up and close-down procedures, back-up, key management, equipment
maintenance, computer room and mail handling, management and safety.

10.1.2. Change Management

Control A10.1.2: Changes to information processing facilities and systems must be
controlled.

Changes to Horizon and Horizon Online information processing facilities and systems
must be controlled. Formal management responsibilities and procedures must be in
place to ensure satisfactory control of all changes to equipment, software, configuration
or procedures. In particular, it must not be possible to install any equipment,

Version 4.32.0
Page 32

POL-BSFF-0223787_0031
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

application or operating system extension in Horizon Online except under the control of
properly authorised and authenticated systems administrators carrying out authorised
and audited changes [SEC-3299].

Operational programs must be subject to strict change control. When programs are
changed, an audit log containing all relevant information must be retained. Changes to
the operational environment can impact on applications. Wherever practicable,
operational and application change control procedures should be integrated (see also §[
REF _Ref199240880 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT )). In particular, the following controls
must be implemented:
a) identification and recording of significant changes;
b) assessment of the potential impact of such changes;

c) formal approval procedure for proposed changes, including agreement with Post
Office Ltd were there is an impact on it;

d) communication of change details to all relevant persons;
e) procedures identifying responsibilities for aborting and recovering from
unsuccessful changes.

10.1.3. Segregation of duties

Control A10.1.3: Duties and areas of responsibility must be segregated to reduce
opportunities for unauthorised or unintentional modification or misuse of assets.

Segregation of duties is a method for reducing the risk of accidental or deliberate
system misuse. Separating the management or execution of certain duties or areas of
responsibility, in order to reduce opportunities for unauthorized modification or misuse
of information or services, must be considered - see also §10.6.1.

Care must be taken that no single person can perpetrate fraud in areas of single
responsibility without being detected. The initiation of an event should be separated
from its authorization. The following controls should be considered.

a) It is important to segregate activities which require collusion in order to defraud,
e.g. raising a purchase order and verifying that the goods have been received.

b) If there is a danger of collusion, then controls need to be devised so that two or
more people need to be involved, thereby lowering the possibility of conspiracy.

c) The principle of dual control and split responsibility must be applied to the
management of all cryptographic keys that directly or indirectly protect banking
PINs - see ISO 11568.

10.1.4. Separation of development, test and operational facilities

Control A10.1.4: Development, test and operational facilities must be separated to
reduce the risks of unauthorised access or changes to the operational system.

Version 4.32.0
Page 33

POL-BSFF-0223787_0032
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Development, test and operational facilities must be separated to achieve segregation of
the roles involved and to protect the security of the operational system and its data (also
see §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT ][ REF _Ref199331680 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ])). Rules for the transfer of software from development to operational
status must be defined and documented (also see §[ REF _Ref199331704 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT )).

10.2. Third party service delivery management

Objective: To implement and maintain the appropriate level of information security and
service delivery in line with third party service delivery agreements.

10.2.1. Service management

Control A10.2.1: It must be ensured that the security controls, service definitions and
delivery levels included in the third party service delivery agreement are implemented,
operated, and maintained by the third party.

The risks should be identified in advance, and appropriate controls agreed with the
domain operator and incorporated into the contract (see also §6.2 for the policy on third
party contracts and outsourcing contracts involving access to Horizon / Horizon Online
facilities).

Any risks associated with the interoperability of Horizon / Horizon Online domains
must be identified in advance through a risk assessment. Appropriate controls must be
agreed by all parties and incorporated into the partnership contracts.

Issues that must be addressed are:

(a) Business continuity,

(b) Security standards to be specified and the process for measuring compliance,

(c) Allocation of specific responsibilities and procedures to effectively monitor all relevant
security activities, and

(d) Responsibilities and procedures for reporting and handling security incidents.

10.2.2. Monitoring and review of third party services

Control A10.2.2: The services, reports and records provided by the third party must be
regularly monitored and reviewed, and audits shall be carried out regularly.

Domain suppliers who use third party services to deliver part of the Horizon Online
service must monitor and review the services provided with the same rigour as
internally provided services. Reviews must ensure that security controls are updated to
reflect changing business, technology and regulatory risks and requirements. Audits of

Version 4.32.0
Page 34

POL-BSFF-0223787_0033
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

third party services must be carried out as part of the domain suppliers internal audit
program.

10.2.3. Managing changes to third party services

Control A10.2.3: Changes to the provision of services, including maintaining and
improving existing information security policies, procedures and controls, must be
managed, taking account of the criticality of business systems and processes involved
and re-assessment of risks.

Horizon and Horizon Online are considered critical systems to Post Office Limited. All
changes impacting the service must be subject to change control procedures - see §[ REF
_Ref204167473 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ], which contains the policy on change
control.

10.3. I System planning and acceptance

Objective: To minimise the risk of systems failures.

10.3.1. Capacity management

Control A10.3.1: The use of resources must be monitored, tuned, and projections must
be made of future capacity requirements to ensure the required system performance.

Advance planning and preparation are required to ensure the availability of adequate
capacity and resources. Projections of future capacity requirements must be made, to
reduce the risk of system overload.

Domains are referred to ISOMEC 27002 for specific controls covering capacity planning.

10.3.2. System acceptance

Control A10.3.2: Acceptance criteria for new information systems, upgrades, and new
versions must be established and suitable tests of the system(s) carried out during
development and prior to acceptance.

Domains are referred to ISOMEC 27002 for specific controls covering system acceptance.

The Royal Mail Group domain must comply with the Security Design and Testing Policy
(S18).

10.4. Protection against malicious and mobile code

Objective: To protect the integrity of software and information.

Version 4.32.0
Page 35

POL-BSFF-0223787_0034
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

10.4.1. Controls against malicious code

Control A10.4.1: Detection, prevention, and recovery controls to protect against
malicious code and appropriate user awareness procedures must be implemented.

All hosts and terminals carrying operational data must be protected against malware
attacks. Such protection must be commensurate with the risk.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for
appropriate controls. Specifically:

a) Precautionary measures must prevent and detect the introduction of malicious
software. It is essential that precautions be taken to detect and prevent computer

viruses and other malware on personal computers and servers using related
technology.

b) The use of software that has not been authorised for use in Horizon / Horizon Online
systems must not be permitted.

c) Detection and prevention controls to protect against malicious software and
appropriate user awareness procedures must be implemented where appropriate.

d) Malware detection and repair software must be installed on platforms where there is a
significant risk of malware attack. It must be operated and regularly updated.
Appropriate procedures and responsibilities must be in place to manage malware
protection, training in its use, reporting and recovery from malware attacks.

e) Communications processes must be in place to verify all information relating to
malware and to ensure that warning bulletins are accurate and informative.

For the Royal Mail Group domain, the Royal Mail Group Anti-Virus Policy (T3) must be
observed.

10.4.2. Controls against mobile code

Control A10.4.2: Where the use of mobile code is authorised, the configuration must
ensure that the authorised mobile code operates according to a clearly defined security
policy, and unauthorised mobile code must be prevented from executing.

In order to protect against the risks associated with mobile code:

a) Where Horizon or Horizon Online business applications are implemented using Java,
the domain supplier must define a Java security model for approval of Post Office Ltd.

b) Any ActiveX or Java applets must be signed or otherwise verified before the Branch
Terminal operating system allows their installation.

Version 4.32.0
Page 36

POL-BSFF-0223787_0035
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

10.5. Back-up

Objective: To maintain the integrity and availability of information and information
processing facilities.

10.5.1. Information back-up

Control A10.5.1: Back-up copies of information and software must be taken and tested
regularly in accordance with an agreed backup policy.

Back-up copies of essential business information and software must be taken regularly
and immediately prior to events such as maintenance or migration that put such
information at risk of loss or corruption [SEC-3237].

Adequate back-up facilities must be provided to ensure that all essential business
information and software can be recovered following loss or corruption due to, for
example, a disaster, malicious attack, equipment failure or media failure. Back-up
arrangements for individual domains must be regularly tested to ensure that they meet
the requirements of business continuity plans (see §[ REF _Ref204169468 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]).

All media containing back-up material must be protected against loss and un-
authorised access. Processes must exist which detect and report loss of, or unauthorised
access to, backed-up material (see §[ REF _Ref206229086 \r \h ]). The security of the
storage location must be reviewed regularly.

See §[ REF _Ref204169275 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for the policy on media in transit.

Restoration following a failure must be in accordance with the change control
procedures - see §[ REF _Ref199240880 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

The retention periods for essential data and information must be determined in order to
fulfil all legal requirements and meet the retention schedule expressed for Royal Mail
Group. See §[ REF _Ref204169435 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for the policy on data
retention.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation.

10.6. I Network security management

Objective: To ensure the safeguarding of information in networks and the protection of
the supporting infrastructure.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for
guidance on interpretation, which is subject to the specific provisions, interpretations

Version 4.32.0
Page 37

POL-BSFF-0223787_0036
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

and highlights below. Also see §[ REF _Ref199242017 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] of
this document for the policy on network access control.

10.6.1. Network controls

Control A10.6.1: Networks must be adequately managed and controlled, in order to be
protected from threats, and to maintain security for the systems and applications using
the network, including information in transit.

Operational responsibility for networks must be identified and documented. Network
management must be separated from computer operations. Network managers must
implement controls to ensure the security of data in networks, and the protection of
connected services from unauthorized access.

For Horizon Online, configuration standards must be documented for all network
components (firewalls, routers etc) on which the security and segmentation of the
network depends. The standards must establish, document and justify the protocols,
services and ports necessary for the correct operation of Horizon Online. Protocols
which are generally considered risky (e.g. FTP) must also document the security
features implemented to mitigate the risks associated with the protocol. Operational
controls must ensure that all such components are configured in accordance with the
standards at all times (including after re-booting the component).

See §[ REF _Ref199234799 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for more network controls.

10.7. Media handling and security

Objective: To prevent unauthorised disclosure, modification, removal or destruction of
assets and interruptions to business activities.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO / IEC 27001 controls, which are
subject to the specific provisions, interpretations and highlights below them.

Control A10.7.1: There must be procedures in place for the management of removable
media.

Control A10.7.2: Media must be disposed of securely and safely when no longer
required, using formal procedures.

See also §[ REF _Ref204172493 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

Control A10.7.3: Procedures for the handling and storage of information must be
established to protect this information from unauthorized disclosure or misuse.

Version 4.32.0
Page 38

POL-BSFF-0223787_0037
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Control A10.7.4: System documentation must be protected against unauthorised access.

All removable computer media, such as tapes, disks, cassettes and printed reports must
be managed to ensure that essential information is not lost and sensitive information is
not disclosed in an unauthorised manner (see also §[ REF _Ref204171048 \r \h ]).
Controls must detect if sensitive information is lost or subject to unauthorised access.
These should include maintaining an inventory (see §[ REF _Ref204171775 \r \h ])
which is periodically verified and tracking all movements of media that may contain
sensitive information.

10.8. I Exchanges of information

Objective: To maintain the security of information and software exchanged within an
organisation and with any external entity.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO / IEC 27001 controls, which are
subject to the specific provisions, interpretations and highlights below them.

Control A10.8.1: Formal exchange policies, procedures, and controls must be in place to
protect the exchange of information through the use of all types of communication
facilities.

Control A10.8.2: Agreements must be established for the exchange of information and,
where relevant, software between domains and external parties.

Control A10.8.3: Media containing information must be protected against unauthorized
access, misuse or corruption during transportation beyond a domain’s physical boundaries.

Control A10.8.4: Information involved in electronic messaging must be appropriately
protected.

Control A10.8.5: Policies and procedures must be developed and implemented to protect
information associated with the interconnection of business information systems.

The following specific provisions and clarifications apply to the above controls:

a) The source of any data that is intended to result in the movement of funds must
be cryptographically authenticated unless a risk assessment identifies that there

Version 4.32.0
Page 39

POL-BSFF-0223787_0038
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

b)

d)

e)

8)

h)

)

5 This control is less criti

is a negligible residual risk to Post Office Ltd after taking into account any other
countermeasures or related business processes that are implemented.

Replay of encrypted PIN values must be prevented especially over the otherwise
unprotected PIN Pad to Counter Terminal interface [SEC-3301].

Horizon’ must be protected against stolen or cloned Branch Terminals (i.e. an
appropriately configured PC running an unauthorised copy of the Horizon
application software). The protection mechanism must not be solely reliant on
the username and password entered by Branch Staff (or any other individual
attending the Branch other than maintenance staff using one-time passwords or
other dynamic authentication techniques).

Any Sensitive Personal Data (as defined by the Data Protection Act 1998 - see
§15.1.4) must only be transmitted across any network, internal or external, in
encrypted form. Consideration must be given to the encryption of other personal
data (as defined by the Act) prior to transmission over public networks. Any
other data that is considered to be sensitive (including passwords and any data
identified as Strictly Confidential - see §7.2) must be transmitted across any
network, internal or external, only in encrypted form, unless a risk assessment
identifies that there is a low residual risk to Post Office Ltd. See also §[ REF
_Ref199331960 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

Any Horizon / Horizon Online information exchanged with external parties,
including Post Office clients, must be the subject formal specifications approved
by Post Office Limited.

All Horizon / Horizon Online domains are likely to use electronic systems other
than those directly concerned with Horizon / Horizon Online. Each domain
(including Post Office Ltd.) must ensure that Post Office Ltd. data stored on such
systems is secure. Clear segregation must be maintained between Horizon /
Horizon Online and non-Horizon / Horizon Online systems.

All Horizon / Horizon Online domains must have appropriate measures in place
to ensure that their public facing connections or customer access points are
configured to ensure total separation from internal systems that contain Horizon
/ Horizon Online data.

Any access by a third party must be evaluated case by case on the basis of need
and a risk assessment.

Any messaging application (e.g. e-mail) used to communicate with branch staff
via Horizon / Horizon Online must be configured such that it cannot be used to
attack the integrity or availability of any Horizon / Horizon Online system
including those in the branches and the data centres. In the event that e-mail
facilities are added to Horizon Online, additional security controls must be
agreed with Post Office Information Security prior to implementation.

If any other systems are used, data on them must be secured.

capable of transacting business as a stand-alone terminal.

Version +-32.0
Page 40

1 in Horizon Online since the terminal does not store sensitive data nor is it

POL-BSFF-0223787_0039
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

10.9. I Electronic commerce services

Objective: To ensure the security of electronic commerce services, and their secure use.

Control A10.9.1: Information involved in electronic commerce passing over public
networks must be protected from fraudulent activity, contract dispute, and
unauthorised disclosure and modification.

See the specific provisions and clarifications relating to this control in §[ REF
_Ref199326362 \r\h \* MERGEFORMAT J.

Control A10.9.2: Information involved in on-line transactions must be protected to
prevent incomplete transmission, mis-routing, unauthorised message alteration,
unauthorised disclosure, unauthorised message duplication or replay.

For transactions involving banking or payment cards, the Primary Account Number
(PAN) must be masked when displayed or printed such that only the first 6 and the last
4 digits are readable unless there is an overriding business case for an authorised user
to view the complete number.*

Also see specific provisions and clarifications relating this control in §[ REF
_Ref199326371 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

Control A10.9.3: The integrity of information being made available on a publicly
available system must be protected to prevent unauthorised modification.

This control is not applicable to Horizon / Horizon Online since no Horizon / Horizon
Online information is made available on a publically accessible system.

10.10. Monitoring

Objective: To detect unauthorized information processing activities.

10.10.1. Audit logging

Control A10.10.1: Audit logs recording user activities, exceptions, and information
security events must be produced and kept for an agreed period to assist in future
investigations and access control monitoring.

® Note that there are tighter rules set by the card schemes for the display of cardholder data on receipts
produced at branch terminals.

Version 4.32.0
Page 41

POL-BSFF-0223787_0040
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

An audit trail of all transactions and events (including failed ones) must be maintained.
Transactions which are abandoned prior to submission to the Data Centre only need an
audit record where there is a reasonable customer expectation that the transaction
might proceed.

As a minimum, the audit trail for transactions must be able to identify at least the
following:

a) the type of transaction,

b) the transaction result,

c) the transaction value,

d) the identity and location of the person who initiated it, and

e) the date and time at which the transaction occurred.

Transactions must be uniquely identified in the audit trail. Transactions must be
traceable from end to end i.e. from the receipt produced for the customer at the Branch
Terminal to the point at which they cross the Horizon / Horizon Online boundary.

See §[ REF _Ref204174088 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for the policy on recording
events for inclusion in the audit trail.

The audit trail must be maintained securely for a period agreed contractually with Post
Office Ltd (see also §[ REF _Ref 199325690 \r \h ]). The audit trail may be archived after
an agreed period. It must be possible to extract relevant audit data, including archived
audit data, such that it is fit for use as legal evidence in support of a prosecution. It
must still be possible to extract data during the agreed period, even if the technology
originally used to generate the trail has been upgraded or replaced. See §[ REF
_Ref204172755 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] for the policy on destruction of data
including audit data and any extracts thereof. See §[ REF _Ref204172779 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ] for the policy on back-up of data including audit data.

10.10.2. Monitoring system use

Control 10.10.2: Procedures for monitoring use of information processing facilities must
be established and the results of the monitoring activities reviewed regularly.

Network-based intrusion detection must be deployed to protect systems storing or
processing CONFIDENTIAL or STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL data in the Horizon
Online Data Centre (see §[ REF _Ref204170172 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT J). The
intrusion detection system must alert operational staff to suspected compromise of such
systems.

File integrity monitoring tools must be used to alert operational staff to unauthorised

Version +.32.0
Page 42

POL-BSFF-0223787_0041
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

modification of critical? system or content files in the Cardholder Data Environment at
the data centres. File integrity tools must be used elsewhere where a risk assessment
indicates they would be of benefit.

Log records documenting access to systems, resources, or selected functions must be
retained to ensure they are available for review or use during the investigation of
unauthorised access - see §[ REF _Ref204172827 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] and §[
REF _Ref199325690 \r \h J.

Automated logging must be implemented in order to ensure the following events can
be reconstructed:

a) All individual access to Horizon / Horizon Online business data (including
Cardholder Data),

b) All actions taken by any individual with root or administrative privileges,
c) Access to all audit trails and event logs,

d) Invalid logical access attempts,

e) Use of identification and authentication mechanisms,

f) Initialization of the audit and event logs, and

g) Creation and deletion of system-level objects.

For each of the above events, the minimum that must be recorded is:
a) User identification,

b) Type of event,

c) Date and time,

d) Success or failure indication,

e) Origination of event, and

f) Identity or name of affected data, system component, or resource

Operational and support staff must maintain activity logs, these should include:
a) System starting and finishing times

b) System errors and corrective action taken

c) Confirmation of the correct handling of data files and computer output

d) The identity of the person making the log entry

7 For file integrity monitoring purposes, critical files are those that do not regularly change, but the
modification of which could indicate a system compromise or risk of compromise. File integrity
monitoring products usually come pre-configured with critical files for the related operating system.
Other critical files, such as those for custom applications, must be evaluated and defined by the
domain provider.

Version +.32.0
Page 43

POL-BSFF-0223787_0042
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Logs for all system components must be reviewed for potential security violations and
incidents at least daily. Special attention must be paid to all system components that
perform security functions like intrusion detection system (IDS) and RADIUS servers.
Filtering and alerting tools should be used to minimise the risk of violations or incidents
being missed.

Operator logs should be subject to regular, independent checks against operating
procedures.

10.10.3. Protection of log information

Control A10.10.3: Audit logging facilities and information must be protected against
tampering and unauthorised access.

All event logging data must be promptly retrieved to a centralised system where it is
secured and analysed. Unauthorised changes to audit logging facilities and information
must be detected and reported.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation.

10.10.4. Administrator and operator logs

Control A10.10.4: System administrator and system operator activities must be logged.

See §[ REF _Ref204174241 \r \h ] for further policies on this topic.

10.10.5. Fault logging

Control A10.10.5: Faults must be logged, analysed, and appropriate action taken.

There must be a process for reporting and handling faults and ensuring that
appropriate corrective action has been taken.

There must be a subsequent process to ensure that fault logs are reviewed and that
faults have been satisfactorily resolved.

10.10.6. Clock synchronisation

Control A10.10.6: The clocks of all relevant information processing systems within
Horizon / Horizon Online must be synchronized with an accurate time source.

Relevant information processing systems must be interpreted as including any system
component generating audit logging file entries for Horizon / Horizon Online (see §[
REF _Ref204174297 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT J).

Domain suppliers are referred to corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for further guidance on

Version 4.32.0
Page 44

POL-BSFF-0223787_0043
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

interpretation.

11. Access control

Objective: To control access to Horizon / Horizon Online resources.

11.1. Business requirement for access control

Objective: To control access to information.

11.1.1. Access control policy

Control A11.1.1: An access control policy must be established, documented, and
reviewed based on business and security requirements for access.

General Policy

Control of access to all Post Office Ltd systems interfacing with Horizon / Horizon
Online must be in accordance with the Royal Mail Group Logical Access Control Policy
(86).

Each Horizon / Horizon Online domain must have its own Access Control Policy
which addresses physical and logical access. This Access Control Policy defines the
policy for controlling access to resources involved in Horizon and Horizon Online in
line with the overall objectives specified in this policy.

The policy must take account of the following:

a) Security requirements of Horizon / Horizon Online applications,

b) Identification of all information related to Horizon / Horizon Online applications,

c) Policies for information dissemination and authorisation, e.g. the need to know
principle, security levels and classification of information,

d) Relevant legislation and any contractual obligations regarding protection of access to
data or services,

e) Standard user access profiles for common categories of job, and
f) Management of access rights in a distributed and networked environment, which
recognises all types of connections available.

Access must only be granted where there is an identified business need and must be
denied unless specifically allowed.

Access to Horizon / Horizon Online must only be from systems approved by
management.

Version 4.32.0
Page 45

POL-BSFF-0223787_0044
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

8
9

Formal user access management processes must ensure that access control is kept up-to-
date to reflect changes in users’ employment and responsibilities - see §[ REF
_Ref205979241 \r \h J.

UserlDs and passwords must not be shared’, unless in very specific circumstances for
which a specific exception would need to be agreed with Post Office Information
Security.? In the exceptional circumstances of a shared UserID or password, an audit
trail must be available to enable a specific individual’s access to be determined for
Royal Mail Group staff.

On newly installed equipment and software (including replacements), default
passwords and identification strings must be changed prior to setting the equipment /
software live.

All passwords transmitted across any internal or external network must be encoded
such that it is infeasible for an interceptor to deduce the password. Similarly, it must be
infeasible to deduce password from the stored reference value against which entered
passwords are verified.

Horizon Online users must not have any access to add, modify, delete or execute any
operating system or application files (including databases) without first being properly
authorised, authenticated and audited. Controls must be in place to prevent this
requirement being bypassed by any new or upgraded application or system build [SEC-
3228].

Horizon & Horizon Online Branch Terminal - Specific Policy

a) All users of Branch Terminals must be identified and authenticated before using the

Branch Terminal. Each identity must be capable of being traced to a specific individual

such that each individual can be held accountable for their actions.

b) Permission to access Horizon / Horizon Online data and functionality must be based.
on roles that reflect the duties of staff accessing the system. Branch Terminal users
must only be allocated permissions based on being allocated to such a role and not
based on their individual identity.

c) Branch Clerical Staff must only have access to Horizon / Horizon Online business

application(s); they must not have access to any operating system level functionality or

to any utilities that could be used to modify or attack the system.

11.2. User access management

Objective: To ensure authorised user access and to prevent unauthorised access to
information systems.

In particular, the practice of allocating group or shared passwords is explicitly prohibited.

This requirement also means that userIDs and passwords used by applications must not be shared

with individual users or other processes.

Version +.32.0
Page 46

POL-BSFF-0223787_0045
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

11.2.1. User registration

Control A11.2.1: There must be a formal user registration and de-registration procedure
in place for granting and revoking access to all information systems and services.

The access control procedures for user registration and de-registration must include:

a)

b)
°)

d)

f)
8)

h)

)

allocating unique user IDs to enable users to be linked to and held responsible for their
actions;

checking that the user has appropriate management authorisation

checking that the level of access granted is appropriate to the business purpose (see §[
REF _Ref204161912 \r \h ]) and is consistent with security policy, e.g. it does not
compromise segregation of duties (see §[ REF _Ref204161940 \r \h ]);

ensuring users are aware of their responsibilities in respect of access control
procedures (see §[ REF _Ref204163435 \r \h ])

requiring users to sign statements indicating that they understand the conditions of
access;

ensuring access is not granted until authorisation procedures are complete;

maintaining a formal record of all persons registered to use Horizon / Horizon Online
systems;

immediately removing or blocking access rights of users who have changed roles or
jobs or left the organization;

periodically checking for, and removing or blocking, redundant user IDs and accounts
(see §[ REF _Ref204162052 \r \h });

ensuring that redundant user IDs are not issued to other users.

A role must be provided such that authorised Branch staff (e.g. the Postmaster) can be
made responsible for administering all stages in the life-cycle of Branch Clerical Staff,
from the initial registration of new users to the final de-registration of users who no
longer require access to Horizon / Horizon Online.

11.2.2. Privilege management

Control A11.2.2: The allocation and use of privileges must be restricted and controlled.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

11.2.3. User password management

Control A11.2.3: The allocation of passwords must be controlled through a formal
management process.

Version 4.32.0

Page 47

POL-BSFF-0223787_0046
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

a) Procedures must be established which verify the identity of a user prior to providing a
new, replacement or temporary password.

b) Users allocated new or replacement passwords must be provided initially with a
secure temporary password (see §[ REF _Ref204159215 \r \h ]), which they are forced
to change immediately.

c) Temporary passwords must be given to users in a secure manner; the use of third
parties or unprotected (clear text) electronic mail messages must be avoided.

d) Temporary passwords should be unique to an individual and must not be guessable;
e) Users should acknowledge receipt of passwords.

f) Passwords must never be stored on computer systems in an unprotected form.

g) Default vendor passwords must be altered following installation of systems or

software.

11.2.4. Review of user access rights

Control A11.2.4: Management must ensure users’ access rights are reviewed at regular
intervals using a formal process.

In this context, regular intervals must not exceed 90 days.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation.

11.3. User responsibilities

Objective: To prevent unauthorised user access, and compromise or theft of information
and information processing facilities.

11.3.1. Password use

Control A11.3.1: Users must be required to follow good security practices in the
selection and use of passwords.

All domains must comply with the following password policy:

a) Where passwords are used for authentication, the user must be forced to change
the initial password before any other access to the system is permitted.

b) Passwords must expire in 30 days.

c) Re-use of the same password must not be permitted for either a specified time or
until at least 4 other passwords have been used.

d) Passwords must be a minimum of 7 characters long and must be alphanumeric
(ie. a mix of letters and numbers). There must not be more than two consecutive

Version 4.32.0
Page 48

POL-BSFF-0223787_0047
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

identical characters. The password must not be the same as the username.

e) After 3 consecutive unsuccessful attempts to log-on, the user must be locked out
for at least 30 minutes or until an administrator has replaced the password in
accordance with §[ REF _Ref204164269 \r \h].

11.3.2. Unattended user equipment

Control A11.3.2: Users must ensure that unattended equipment has appropriate
protection.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

11.3.3. Clear desk and clear screen policy

Control A11.3.3: A clear desk policy for papers and removable storage media and a
clear screen policy for information processing facilities must be adopted where
appropriate.

All domains must recognise the information security classifications of this policy. A
clear desk and clear screen policy must be followed whenever handling information
classified as CONFIDENTIAL or STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (see §[ REF
_Ref204163708 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ])).

Users of Branch Terminals must be encouraged to clear the screen on their terminal or
logoff whenever it is left unattended (also see §[ REF _Ref204163732 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT J and §[ REF _Ref204163740 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT J).

All Post Office Ltd. employees must always observe the Post Office Ltd. Clear Desk
Policy. On Post Office Ltd premises, all suppliers, contractors and third parties must
observe The Royal Mail Group Clear Desk Policy (s10), to reduce the risks of
unauthorised access, loss of, and damage to, information during and outside normal
working hours.

Individual domains are also referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for further
guidance on interpretation.

11.4. Network access control

Objective: To prevent unauthorized access to networked services.

Also see §[ REF _Ref199233886 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT I for the policy on Network Security
Management.

Version 4.32.0
Page 49

POL-BSFF-0223787_0048
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

11.4.1. Policy on use of network services

Control A11.4.1: Users must only be provided with access to the services that they have
been specifically authorised to use.

(a)

(6

(

The Horizon / Horizon Online network configuration must permit traffic to flow
between clearly defined and documented security boundaries only as specifically
required for Horizon / Horizon Online applications and their associated management.

Unauthorised access from non-Horizon / Horizon Online systems and networks must
be prevented, including unauthorised access from:

¢ any public networks used,

¢ networks connecting to Third Parties,

¢ networks connecting Horizon / Horizon Online to Post Office Ltd and/or Royal
Mail Group,

¢ other systems operated by the domain supplier on behalf of itself or other clients,
and

¢ Unauthorised access via the Branch LAN.
Controls must protect against denial-of-service attacks originating from non-Horizon

/ Horizon Online systems including those listed in [ REF _Ref199242230 \w \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ] and [ REF _Ref199242314 \w \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

(d) The type and location of network security controls addressing points (a), (b) and (c)

(e)

(p)

(g)

must reflect both the likelihood of breach via a particular network connection and the
likely impact of any successful breach on the overall security of the Horizon / Horizon
Online service.

The Horizon Online system must not retrieve data from any external web service,
including the Internet, unless additional security controls are documented and agreed
with Post Office Information Security. The objective of such controls is to prevent the
import of any mobile or malicious code (see §[ REF _Ref199310581 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ] and §[ REF _Ref199310617 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT ]) and the
unauthorised export of any Horizon Online business data.

All Horizon Online systems must use private IP addresses (see RFC1918) which must
not be exposed across the system boundary".

For Horizon Online, a Cardholder Data Environment (see Definitions, §[ REF
_Ref199240475 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]) must be defined, documented and
agreed with Post Office Limited’s PCI DSS auditors. The documentation must show all
connections to Cardholder Data and must be maintained to reflect changes to the
system. The Cardholder Data Environment must be segmented from other parts of the
Horizon Online system in order to minimise the scope of the PCI DSS audit in so far as
this is practical. Additional controls will exist in this environment to comply with PCI
DSS.

10 E.g. by the use of NAT (Network Address Translation).

Version +.32.0

Page 50

POL-BSFF-0223787_0049
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

(h) Network management staff within each domain must be alerted to any attempt to

(i)

@

reach the Horizon / Horizon Online systems in their domain from unauthorised
network addresses. Individual attempts must be treated as a minor security breach. A
concerted attempt or a successful breach of network security controls must be treated
as a major security breach.

Precautions must be taken to mitigate the risk of unauthorised devices being
connected to any component of the Horizon Online system, with the exception of
passive devices within the Branch.

A domain supplier may wish to disconnect a link in a security emergency. Any such
enforced disconnection facilities must be agreed with Post Office Ltd. and documented
in an Operational Level Agreement with the Post Office.

(k) WAN connections must be encrypted unless specifically agreed in writing by Post

0)

Office Information Security. Encryption key management must be independent of
network configuration such that the confidentiality of Post Office Ltd traffic is not
compromised by a single configuration error of either the WAN or the encryption
system. Also see the cryptographic policy, §12.3.

Back-up network facilities should be provided to protect any single network
communications, equipment, or configuration failure. They must be provided where
such a failure would have a significant impact on the ability of Post Office Ltd to
transact business.

(m) Any backup or alternate network must be secured to the same level as the primary

network.

(n) Test systems must only share network connections with operational systems in

carefully controlled circumstances. Test systems must only be configured to connect in
this manner for the minimum duration necessary to support testing and must be
logically separated from connections carrying live data. The connection must only be
permitted after an assessment has confirmed that live operation will not be adversely
impacted. Also see the policy on separation of live and test, §[ REF _Ref199331482 \r
\h].

(0) The use of wireless technologies within or associated with Horizon / Horizon Online

systems or services must be excluded with the exception of public telecommunications
services provided by UK licensed public telecommunications operators or as
otherwise agreed by Post Office Ltd. in response to a security risk assessment."

11.4.2. User authentication for external connections

Control A11.4.2: Appropriate authentication methods must be used to control access by
remote users.

1! The objective of this requirement is to ban Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and similar technologies whilst
permitting, for example, the use of mobile phone carriers and satellite technologies to provide branch
to data centre communications provided the traffic is secured appropriately for transit over a public
network.

Version +-32.0

Page 51

POL-BSFF-0223787_0050
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Users accessing Horizon Online facilities remotely (i.e. over any external connection)
must be authenticated using a technique employing two factors: something the user has
(e.g. a cryptographic token) and something the user knows (e.g. a password). For the
sake of clarity, the connection between a branch and the data centre is not considered
external for the purpose of this statement.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOAEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation.

11.4.3. Equipment identification in networks

Control A11.4.3: Automatic equipment identification should be considered as a means
to authenticate connections from specific locations and equipment.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

11.4.4. Remote diagnostic and configuration port protection

Control A11.4.4: Physical and logical access to diagnostic and configuration ports must
be controlled.

Ports, services, and similar facilities installed on an Horizon / Horizon Online
computer or network facility, which are not specifically required for business
functionality, must be disabled or removed.

Network access points used by third parties for remote diagnostic and/or configuration
purposes must only be enabled for the duration necessary for the specific activity being
undertaken. Enabling of the network access points must be under the control of the
appropriate Horizon / Horizon Online support management. Third party staff and/or
diagnostic systems accessing Horizon / Horizon Online systems must be identified and
authenticated in accordance with this policy.

11.4.5. Segregation of networks

Control A11.4.5: Groups of information services, users, and information systems must
be segregated on networks.

All RADIUS servers that authenticate network access must be secured and segregated
into logical network segments by carrier access method and be externally visible to
authorised domain users only.

The Cardholder Data Environment (see Definitions, §[ REF _Ref199240475 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]) must be secured and segmented to prevent unauthorised access to
Cardholder Data and Sensitive Authentication Data.

All network interfaces between the Horizon / Horizon Online environment and

Version 4.32.0
Page 52

POL-BSFF-0223787_0051
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

external networks must ensure that there are barriers (such as dynamic packet filtering
firewalls and DMZs) that control access and communications flows between internal
systems and the external connections. Such controls must ensure segregation between
external networks as well as segregation between internal and external systems.'2

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation. Also see the policy on the use of network services, §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h

\* MERGEFORMAT ] above.

11.4.6. Network connection control

Control A11.4.6: For shared networks, especially those extending across a domain’s
boundaries, the capability of users to connect to the network must be restricted, in line
with the access control policy and requirements of the business applications (see §[ REF
_Ref 199320474 \r \h }).

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation. Also see the policy on the use of network services, §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h \*

MERGEFORMAT J above.

11.4.7. Network routing control

Control A11.4.7: Routing controls must be implemented for networks to ensure that
computer connections and information flows do not breach the access control policy of
the business applications.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for additional
guidance on interpretation. Also see the policy on the use of network services, §[ REF
—Ref199225557 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT I] above.

11.5. I Operating system access control

Objective: To prevent unauthorized access to operating systems.

11.5.1. Secure log-on procedures

Control A11.5.1: Access to operating systems must be controlled by a secure log-on
procedure.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for guidance on
implementing this control, which is subject to the specific provisions, interpretations and highlights
below.

Branch staff must be prevented from accessing the operating system on Counter
Terminals. They must only have access to authorised applications. For Horizon Online,
12 Also see specific policy for mobile and personal computers in §[ REF _Ref199321930 \r \h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 53

POL-BSFF-0223787_0052
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

terminals must be bootable only from the primary mass storage device on the terminal.

Branch Terminals must include a single user action that, in between customer sessions,
cleanly terminates the clerk session and presents a new clerk login screen. During a
customer session, the clerk must first complete or cancel the session in accordance with
business rules.

11.5.2. User identification and authentication

Control A11.5.2: All users must have a unique identifier (user ID) for their personal use
only, and a suitable authentication technique shall be chosen to substantiate the claimed
identity of a user.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation. See also §[ REF _Ref204158711 \r \h ] for additional authentication requirements

over external connections.

11.5.3. Password management system

Control A11.5.3: Systems for managing passwords must be interactive and must ensure
quality passwords.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation. Also see the policy on password use, §[ REF _Ref204159215 \r \h]

11.5.4. Use of system utilities

Control A11.5.4: The use of utility programs that might be capable of overriding system
and application controls must be restricted and tightly controlled.

See also the Branch access control policy §11.1.1

11.5.5. Session time-out

Control A11.5.5: Inactive sessions must shut down after a defined period of inactivity.

Any inactive user session that has been idle for more than 15 minutes must be
suspended or terminated until the user is re-authenticated.

Users of Horizon Online Branch Terminals must have access to a single user action that
clears the screen, prevents further data entry and maintains the current session states,
until such time as the operator is re-authenticated or until the Branch Terminal sessions
are closed following an inactivity timeout; whichever is the sooner.

Version 4.32.0
Page 54

POL-BSFF-0223787_0053
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

11.5.6. Limitation of connection time

Control A11.5.5: Restrictions on connection times must be used to provide additional
security for high-risk applications.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

11.6. Application and information access control

Objective: To prevent unauthorized access to information held in application systems.

11.6.1. Information access restriction

Control A11.6.1: Access to information and application system functions by users and
support personnel must be restricted in accordance with the defined access control

policy.

Application-level logon to Branch Terminals must provide equivalent security to that
provided by logon via native operating systems. [SEC-3295]

Horizon Online Branch Terminals must have controls in place to prevent user bypass of
the standard application [SEC-3298].

All access to any database containing CONFIDENTIAL or STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
data as defined in §[ REF _Ref204165333 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT ] (including
Cardholder Data as defined in §[ REF _Ref199240475 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ])
must be authenticated. This includes access by applications, administrators, and all
other users. Direct access to such databases by individuals is strongly deprecated and
must be limited to authorised database administrators.

Also see the access control policy, §[ REF _Ref199320486 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ].

11.6.2. Sensitive system isolation

Control A11.6.2: Sensitive systems must have a dedicated (isolated) computing
environment.

Horizon and Horizon Online must be treated as sensitive systems in this context.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation.

Version 4.32.0
Page 55

POL-BSFF-0223787_0054
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

11.7. Mobile computing and teleworking

Objective: To ensure information security when using mobile computing and
teleworking facilities.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO / IEC 27001 controls, which are
subject to the specific provisions, interpretations and highlights below them.

Control A11.7.1: A formal policy must be in place, and appropriate security measures
must be adopted to protect against the risks of using mobile computing and
communication facilities.

Control A11.7.2: A policy, operational plans and procedures must be developed and
implemented for teleworking activities.

12.

The Mobile Security Policy ($5) and the Mobile Security Guidelines must be observed
for security of laptops allocated to or used by Post Office staff.

When accessing Cardholder Data remotely via modem, it must not be stored onto local
hard drives, floppy disks, or other external media. Cut-and-paste and print functions
must not be used during such remote access.

Personal firewall software must be present and operational on any mobile and/or
employee-owned computers (for example, laptops used by employees) which is used to
access cardholder data and which also has direct connectivity to the Internet.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for further guidance
on interpretation of these controls.

Systems acquisition, development and maintenance

12.1. Security requirements of information systems

Objective: To ensure that security is an integral part of Information Systems

12.1.1. Security Requirements Analysis and specification

Control A12.1.1: Statements of business requirements for new information systems, or
enhancements to existing information systems must specify the requirements for
security controls.

All security requirements must be identified, justified, agreed and documented as part

Version 4.32.0
Page 56

POL-BSFF-

0223787_0055
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

of the overall business case.

The security controls must be specified within the statements of business requirements
for Horizon, Horizon Online, and enhancements, both the need for automated and
manual controls must be specified.

Security controls must reflect:
* the business value of the information assets involved
¢ the potential business damage
e Regulatory and contractual requirements

Security requirements and controls should be identified from risk assessment.

Within the Post Office domain:

* a Business Impact Assessment must be conducted at the feasibility stage of a
development project, and

e aSecurity Risk Assessment must be conducted at the Conceptual Design stage of
project development.

The following must be considered during the analysis:
¢ identification and authentication of human and system “users”
* control of access to information and services
* segregation of duties
* secure operation in degraded mode
¢ incorporation and analysis of audit trails
e data and system integrity protection
* use of encryption to prevent unauthorised disclosure of data
* system resilience, including operation in fall-back mode and recovery.

12.2. Correct processing in applications

Objective: To prevent errors, loss, modification or misuse of user data in application
systems.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO / IEC 27001 controls, which are
subject to the specific provisions, interpretations and highlights below them.

Control A12.2.1: Data input to applications must be validated to ensure that this data is
correct and appropriate.

In particular, applications must be protected against common application level attacks
such as buffer overflows, SQL injection and cross-site scripting.

Version 4.32.0
Page 57

POL-BSFF-0223787_0056
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Control A12.2.2: Validation checks must be incorporated into applications to detect any
corruption of information through processing errors or deliberate acts.

Control A12.2.3: Requirements for ensuring authenticity and protecting message
integrity in applications must be identified, and appropriate controls identified and
implemented.

See also §I REF _Ref199325178 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Control A12.2.4: Data output from an application must be validated to ensure that the
processing of stored information is correct and appropriate to the circumstances.

In particular:
a) See the policy on Mobile Code, §[ REF _Ref252542154 \r \h ].

b) Applications requiring passwords must comply with the password policy in
§11.3.1 unless otherwise approved by Post Office Ltd Information Security.

c) The security of data, especially business data, transaction data, sensitive data (see
§[ REF _Ref204163708 \r \h ]) and audit data (see §[ REF _Ref204174297 \r \h ]),
must be maintained in accordance with this policy during any migration from a
live Horizon system or component to Horizon Online.

d) The secure file-store in configured Horizon terminals must be rendered
unrecoverable on migration to Horizon Online. Any terminal which is not
migrated (e.g. it is taken out of service instead) must have its file-store deleted in
accordance with established Horizon procedures [SEC-3273].

12.3. Cryptographic Controls

Objective: To protect the confidentiality, authenticity and or integrity of information by
cryptographic means.

12.3.1. Policy on the use of cryptographic controls

Control A12.3.1: A policy on the use of cryptographic controls for protection of
information must be developed and implemented.

Horizon / Horizon Online must operate within the framework of the Royal Mail Group
Cryptographic policy and follow the recognised financial industry guidelines on
cryptography which includes:

e Encryption
e Digital Signatures

Version 4.32.0
Page 58

POL-BSFF-0223787_0057
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

e Non-repudiation services
e Key Management
e Security of system files.

Cryptographic systems and techniques must be used for the protection of information
that is considered at risk and for which other controls do not provide adequate
protection.

Unless otherwise agreed with Post Office Ltd, cryptographic controls must be used as
follows:

(a) Once entered by a cardholder, plain text PINs must only be processed in a physically
secure device as defined in ISO 9564 (see also §[ REF _Ref199326016 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]). At all other times, PINs must be encrypted as defined in ISO
9564.

(b) Any cryptographic key knowledge of which could directly or indirectly reveal plain
text PINs must be managed in accordance with ISO 11568 Parts 1 to 3.

(c) Unless point (d) applies, Banking MACs must be used to authenticate the source of all
messages or files that may result in the transfer of funds.

(d) Banking MACs may be omitted where there is a cryptographically authenticated
circuit (e.g. a VPN) between the source and destination of the payment data. The
encryptor must be located within the physical security of the data centre hosting the
payment application.

(e) Any link carrying information classified as “confidential” in clause §[ REF
_Ref204163708 \r \h ] must be encrypted outside the physical security of a data centre
unless agreed in writing by Post Office Ltd Information Security and, for personal
data, the Data Controller. See also §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h J.

(f) Cardholder Data (see Definitions, §[ REF _Ref199240475 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT ])
must be rendered unreadable anywhere it is stored (including data on portable media,
backup media, and in logs) by using any of the following approaches [SEC-3307]:

* One-way hashes (hashed indexes), such as SHA-1
e Truncation
« Index tokens and PADs, with the PADs being securely stored

e Strong cryptography, such as Triple-DES 128-bit or AES 256-bit with associated
key management processes and procedures (see §[ REF _Ref199327186 \r \h }).

(g) All Sensitive Authentication Data and Cardholder Data must be encrypted using
approved algorithms and encryption protocols whilst in transit over any public
network unless specifically agreed in writing by the Client. It must also be encrypted
when sent by any end-user messaging technology (for example, e-mail, instant
messaging, chat), whether internal or external to the domain. Approved algorithms
are 128-bit 3DES (as per ANSI X9.52) and 256-bit AES (FIPS 197). Approved
encryption protocols are SSL v3 / TLS, SSH, IPSec, and PPTP. [SEC-3310]

Version +.32.0
Page 59

POL-BSFF-0223787_0058
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

(h) Government specified algorithms and key lengths must be used where specifically
required by HM Government. Post Office Ltd. must ensure that the contract with
domain suppliers contains or references any such HM Government requirements.

(i) Subject to (h), industry standard commercial algorithms and protocols should be used.
Cryptographic key lengths for commercial algorithms must be at least 112 bits for
symmetric keys and at least 1024 bits for public keys. Triple-DES (ANSI X9.52) is the
only approved symmetric algorithm for protecting banking PINs (see ISO 9564). 256-
bit AES is the preferred symmetric algorithm and key length.

(j) Encrypted traffic must only pass through firewalls where it is agreed with Post Office
Ltd. Information Security that it does not represent a significant threat to the security
of Horizon / Horizon Online - See §[ REF _Ref199224960 \r \h ]. Selectively
encrypted fields such as PINs, passwords and cryptographic key management fields
are not considered such a threat.

(k) All non-console administrative access must be encrypted. Technologies such as SSH,
VPN, or SSL/TLS must be used for web-based management and other non-console
administrative access.

12.3.2. Key management

Control A12.3.2: Key management must be in place to support the use of cryptographic
techniques.

See item 12.3.1(b), above for the policy on keys associated with cardholder PINs.

It must be possible to recover the system to a secure operating state from the
compromise of any key that could directly or indirectly expose plain text PIN values
[SEC-3226].

WAN encryption key management must be independent of network configuration such
that the confidentiality of Post Office traffic is not compromised by a single
configuration error of either the WAN or the encryption system [SEC-3168].

Key management processes and procedures must ensure that keys are generated such
that it is impractical for an attacker to deduce the value of the key.

Keys must be protected in storage and transmission such that the integrity and (for
secret / private keys) confidentiality of the key is maintained. Keys must also be
protected against misuse and unauthorised substitution.

Secret / private keys distributed manually must be distributed and entered using split
knowledge wherever a key is protecting against unauthorised internal disclosure. There
must be dual control over the generation and installation of all such keys i.e. no one
person may be able to generate, deduce or install such a key.

Key distribution must be restricted to the fewest possible people and places consistent

Version +.32.0
Page 60

POL-BSFF-0223787_0059
IT Directorate

POL00397117

POL00397117

PSO Process

Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

with maintaining system availability.

Keys must be changed periodically (at least annually if protecting Cardholder Data or
Sensitive Authentication Data) and whenever it is known or suspected that they may
have been compromised. Public key certificates must be revoked whenever it is known
or suspected that the associated key set may have been compromised.

All key management procedures must be documented. Records must be maintained of

key

management activities. Those involved in key management processes protecting

data classified as Confidential, Strictly Confidential, Cardholder Data, or Sensitive
Authentication Data must be formally advised of their responsibilities and sign that
they accept them.

12.4. I Security of system files

Objective: To ensure the security of system files.

12.4.1. Control of Operational Software

Control A12.4.1: There must be procedures in place to control the installation of
software on operational systems.

a)

b)

°)

d)

e)

2)
8)

Operational Horizon Online systems must be “hardened” to an appropriate level of
security in accordance with manufacturer's guidelines.

The updating of the operational software, applications, and program libraries must
only be performed by trained staff upon appropriate management authorisation (see §[
REF _Ref205973435 \r \h_ \* MERGEFORMAT }).

Systems must only hold approved executable code, and not development code or
compilers. All unnecessary functionality, such as scripts, drivers, features, subsystems,
file systems, and unnecessary web servers must be removed.

Applications and operating system software must only be implemented after extensive
and successful testing; the tests should include tests on usability, security, effects on
other systems and user-friendliness, and must be carried out on separate systems (see
also §[ REF _Ref199331482 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]); it should be ensured that all
corresponding program source libraries have been updated.

A configuration control system must be used to keep control of all implemented
software as well as the system documentation.

A rollback strategy should be in place before changes are implemented.

An audit log must be maintained of all updates to operational program libraries (also
see §[ REF _Ref204174088 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]).

Version 4.32.0

Page 61

POL-BSFF-0223787_0060
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

12.4.2. Protection of System Test Data

Control A12.4.2: Test data must be selected carefully, and protected and controlled.

Live Horizon / Horizon Online data must not be used for test or debug purposes unless
specifically authorised by Post Office Ltd and then only once it has been “sanitised”
such that no personal data is identifiable. Similarly, test data, test accounts, test
passwords and test cryptographic keys must be removed from development and test
systems (including all applications) before they migrate to live.

12.4.3. Access control to program source code

Control A12.4.3: Access to program source code must be restricted.

In particular:

a) Horizon / Horizon Online users must not have any access to add, modify, delete
or execute any operating system or application files without first being properly
authorised, authenticated and audited. Controls must be in place to prevent this
requirement being bypassed by any new or upgraded application or system
build.

12.5. Security in development and support processes

Objective: To maintain the security of application system software and information.

Project and support environments must be strictly controlled.

Managers responsible for application systems must also be responsible for the security
of the project or support environment. They must ensure that all proposed system
changes are reviewed to check that they do not compromise the security of either the
system or the operating environment.

12.5.1. Change control procedures

Control A12.5.1: The implementation of changes must be controlled by the use of formal
change control procedures.

In order to minimize the corruption of information systems, there must be strict control
over the implementation of changes - see §[ REF _Ref199309597 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT J]. Formal change control procedures must be enforced. They must
ensure that security and control procedures are not compromised, that support
programmers are given access only to those parts of the system necessary for their
work, and that formal agreement and approval for any change is obtained. Wherever
practicable, application and operational change control procedures should be integrated

Version 4.32.0
Page 62

POL-BSFF-0223787_0061
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

In order to maximize the availability of the system there must be strict control over the
maintenance of all operational Horizon / Horizon Online systems:

a) Wherever practical, maintenance activities must be planned in advance and
scheduled to take place at times of low traffic.

b) Where any maintenance task requires a system outage, the timing of the outage
must be agreed in advance with Post Office Ltd.

c) Also see the policy on Technical Vulnerability Management, §[ REF
_Ref199331121 \r \h J.
12.5.2. Further development & support policies

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO/IEC 27001 controls.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISOMEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

Control A12.5.2: When operational systems are changed, business critical applications
must be reviewed and tested to ensure there is no adverse impact on live operations or
security.

Control A12.5.3: Modifications to off-the-shelf software packages must be discouraged,
limited to necessary changes, and all changes must be strictly controlled.

Control A12.5.4: Opportunities for information leakage must be prevented.

Control A12.5.5: Outsourced software development must be supervised and monitored
by the domain supplier.

See also §I REF _Ref205721619 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] & §[ REF _Ref205721677 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]

Control: Custom application source code must be reviewed prior to operational use.

In accordance with Royal Mail policy S18, source code developed specifically for
Horizon Online systems must be reviewed prior to operational use. The review must
be independent of the developer producing the code and must check for compliance
with §[ REF _Ref199333408 \r \h ]. Any deficiencies detected in the code must be
corrected.

Version 4.32.0
Page 63

POL-BSFF-0223787_0062
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

12.6. I Technical Vulnerability Management

Objective: To reduce risks resulting from exploitation of published technical
vulnerabilities.

12.6.1. Control of technical vulnerabilities

Control A12.6.1: Timely information about technical vulnerabilities of information
systems being must be obtained, the exposure to such vulnerabilities evaluated, and
appropriate measures taken to address the associated risk.

From time to time, product and service suppliers will issue details of security
vulnerabilities and recommend workarounds and / or fixes. Domain suppliers must
apply recommended workarounds and fixes in a timescale commensurate with the risk
to Horizon / Horizon Online and in accordance with the change control procedures.

13. Information Security Incident Management

13.1. Responding to security incidents and malfunctions

Objective: To ensure information security events and weaknesses associated with
information systems are communicated in a manner allowing timely corrective action to
be taken.

13.1.1. Reporting security incidents

Control A13.1.1: Security incidents must be reported through appropriate management
channels as quickly as possible.

When domains interact with each other, there is always a possibility that a security
incident in one domain will have an adverse impact on another domain. The impact
may extend to businesses that have no direct contractual agreement with the domain(s)
suffering the security incident and must therefore be reported to Post Office Ltd for
onward communication.

See also §[ REF _Ref205974803 \r \h ] and §[ REF _Ref205721677 \r \h].

13.1.2. Reporting security weaknesses

Control A13.1.2: All employees, contractors and third party users of information
systems and services must be required to note and report any observed or suspected
security weaknesses in systems or services.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/EC 27002 for guidance on

Version 4.32.0
Page 64

POL-BSFF-0223787_0063
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

interpretation.

13.2. Management of information security incidents and
improvements

Objective: To ensure a consistent and effective approach is applied to the management
of information security incidents.

13.2.1. Responsibilities and procedures

Control A13.2.1: Management responsibilities and procedures must be established to
ensure a quick, effective, and orderly response to information security incidents.

Each domain must take responsibility for reporting (see §[ REF _Ref206240088 \r \h ]),
investigating and resolving security incidents within its own domains that present an
actual or potential threat to the Horizon / Horizon Online environment or to any of the
Horizon / Horizon Online participants. Domains must be able to identify and respond
to potentially serious security incidents at any time during the contracted operating
hours for the Horizon / Horizon Online service. Formal incident response plans must
be established for any incident likely to affect business continuity (see §[ REF
_Ref204169468 \r \h }).

Procedures must exist to cover all potential types of security incident affecting
¢ Confidentiality, including compromise of Cardholder Data and other personal
data,
¢ Integrity, including errors resulting from incomplete or inaccurate business data,
and/or
¢ Availability, including information system failures, loss of service, and denial of
service.

Each domain must establish a formal reporting procedure, together with an incident
response process, setting out the action to be taken on receipt of an incident report or
security alert (see §[ REF _Ref204174088 \r \h ]). All suppliers, employees and
contractors must be made aware of the procedure for reporting security incidents, and
should be required to report such incidents as quickly as possible.

Suitable feedback processes must be implemented to ensure that those reporting
incidents are notified of results after the incident has been dealt with and closed.

An escalation process must be established to ensure that incidents are notified to
relevant parties (via Post Office) and managed across the Horizon / Horizon Online
community.

Security breaches and incidents must be reviewed regularly by the Information Security
Management Forum (see §[ REF _Ref206419393 \r \h ]) to establish cross-community

Version 4.32.0
Page 65

POL-BSFF-0223787_0064
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

awareness.

Escalation procedures to the Royal Mail Group Crisis Management organisation must
be put in place.

Security incidents must be assessed for their likely impact on other parties involved in
the Horizon / Horizon Online service. Serious incidents must be reported to Post Office
Ltd. at the earliest opportunity. Where the timescales for reporting incidents are
formally agreed between Post Office and its Clients, those timescales must be agreed
with the relevant Domains in writing. A summary of other incidents must be reported
to Post Office Ltd. as part of the regular service review.

See §8.2.3 for the policy on the Disciplinary Process that can be invoked as a result of an incident.

13.2.2. Learning from information security incidents

Control A13.2.2: There must be mechanisms in place to enable the types, volumes, and
costs of information security incidents to be quantified and monitored.

Domain suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/TEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

13.2.3. Collection of evidence

Control A13.2.3: Where a follow-up action against a person or organisation after an
information security incident involves legal action (either civil or criminal), evidence
must be collected, retained, and presented to conform to the rules for evidence laid
down in the relevant jurisdiction(s).

It is necessary to have adequate evidence to support an action against a person or
organisation. Whenever this action is an internal disciplinary matter (see §[ REF
_Ref205717383 \r \h ]) the evidence necessary will be described by internal procedures.

Where the action involves the law, either civil or criminal, the evidence presented must
conform to the rules for evidence laid down in the relevant law or in the rules of the
specific court in which the case will be heard.

To achieve admissibility of the evidence, domains must ensure that their information
systems comply with any published standard or code of practice for the production of
admissible evidence.

To achieve quality and completeness of the evidence, a strong evidence trail must be
maintained.

Post Office Ltd will agree the level of support it requires from domains in cases it
prosecutes.

Version 4.32.0
Page 66

POL-BSFF-0223787_0065
POL00397117

POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

14.

Business Continuity

Objective: To counteract interruptions to business activities and to protect Post Office
Ltd. critical business processes from the effects of major failures or disasters and to
ensure their timely resumption.

13

Business continuity for Horizon / Horizon Online concerns the provision of
appropriate processes across the Horizon / Horizon Online Community to develop and
maintain the continuity of all Horizon / Horizon Online business functions.

There must be a process in place, involving the Horizon / Horizon Online community,
to develop and maintain business continuity of the end-to-end Horizon / Horizon
Online service.

Similarly, individual domains must have a process in place for the development and
maintenance of their own business continuity plans in support of their responsibilities
for end-to-end business continuity, including integration with other Horizon / Horizon
Online domains.

Key elements of the business continuity planning process include:
e Understanding the risks, their likelihood and impact
« Understanding the impact of interruptions on Post Office Ltd. as a whole
e Formulating and documenting a business continuity strategy consistent with the
agreed business objectives and priorities
e Regular testing!’ and updating of the plans and amended processes put in place
where necessary.

An end-to-end Horizon / Horizon Online business continuity plan must define the
responsibilities of and interactions between, the individual domains of the Horizon /
Horizon Online Community, and must be integrated within an overall Crisis
Management framework agreed between all parties.

Individual Horizon / Horizon Online domains must each develop and maintain
business continuity plans as defined within the end-to-end plan.

All relevant security provisions must be retained even if degraded operating conditions
are in effect.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO/IEC 27001 controls. Domain

suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 and to ISO/IEC
24762:2008 for guidance on interpretation.

Plans that address compromise of Cardholder Data must be tested at least annually.

Version +-32.0
Page 67

POL-BSFF-0223787_0066
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

Control A14.1.1: A managed process must be developed and maintained for business
continuity for each domain, which addresses the information security requirements
needed for the Horizon / Horizon Online business continuity.

ControlA14.1.2: Events that can cause interruptions to Horizon / Horizon Online
business processes must be identified, along with the probability and impact of such
interruptions and their consequences for information security.

Note: comprontise of the confidentiality personal data (including Cardholder Data) can cause an
interruption to business processes, as systems may have to be closed down until the source of the
compromise is identified, further compromise prevented and/or legal evidence is collected.

Control A14.1.3: Plans must be developed and implemented to maintain or restore
operations and ensure availability of information at the required level and in the
required time scales following interruption to, or failure of, critical business processes.

Control A14.1.4: A single framework of business continuity plans must be maintained
to ensure all plans are consistent, to address information security requirements
consistently, and to identify priorities for testing and maintenance.

Control A14.1.5: Business continuity plans must be tested and updated regularly to
ensure that they are up to date and effective.

15.

Compliance

15.1. Compliance with legal requirements

Objective: To avoid breaches of any criminal and civil law, statutory, regulatory or
contractual obligations and of any security requirements.

15.1.1. Identification of applicable legislation

Control A15.1.1: All relevant statutory, regulatory and contractual requirements and the
domain’s approach to meet these requirements must be explicitly defined, documented,
and kept up to date for Horizon / Horizon Online and the domain.

Horizon / Horizon Online must ensure compliance with all legislative requirements
including the:

Version 4.32.0
Page 68

POL-BSFF-0223787_0067
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

e Freedom of Information Act 2000

e Data Protection Act 1998

¢ Official Secrets Act 1989

« Computer Misuse Act 1990

¢ Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

e Financial Services and Markets Act 2000

¢ Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000

e Electronic Communications Act 2000 as amended by the Communications Act 2003
¢ Money Laundering Regulations 2003

All Horizon / Horizon Online domains must clearly identify compliance measures,
legislation and industrial standards that surround them. Each domain must identify
how compliance is going to be monitored and how often compliance checks are going
to be carried out. The specific controls and individual responsibilities to meet the
requirements must be defined and documented. Where appropriate, advice on specific
legal requirements must be sought from the domain’s legal advisers, or suitably
qualified legal practitioners. Should any domain become aware that a change to another
domain’s systems or procedures is required in order to meet legal requirements, it must
inform the other domain.

15.1.2. Intellectual property rights (IPR)

Control A15.1.2: Appropriate procedures must be implemented to ensure compliance
with legislative, regulatory, and contractual requirements on the use of material in
respect of which there may be intellectual property rights and on the use of proprietary
software products.

Appropriate procedures must be implemented to ensure compliance with legal
restrictions on the use of material in respect of which there may be intellectual property
rights, such as copyright, design rights, trade marks.

Proprietary software products are usually supplied under a licence agreement. They
must only be used in accordance with any such licence. Domain suppliers must ensure
that sufficient licences are available to fulfil their contractual obligations.

15.1.3. Protection of organizational records

Control A15.1.3: Important records must be protected from loss, destruction and
falsification, in accordance with statutory, regulatory, contractual, and business
requirements.

Important records of each domain must be protected from loss, destruction and
falsification.

Version 4.32.0
Page 69

POL-BSFF-0223787_0068
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

The retention periods for essential data and information must be determined in order to
fulfil all legal requirements and meet the retention schedule expressed for Royal Mail
Group. Domains must issue guidelines on the retention, storage, handling, and disposal
of records and information. A retention schedule must be drawn up identifying records
and the period of time for which they should be retained. The schedule must also
identify where there are requirements for the disposal of records at the end of their
retention period. To comply with PCI DSS, the audit trail (see §[ REF _Ref205722017 \r
\h ]) must be retained for at least one year with a minimum of three months available
online (Royal Mail Group requirements are currently in excess of this).

Sensitive Authentication Data (see Definitions) must not be stored in any file or
database including log, audit or diagnostic files after a transaction has been authorised
even if the data is encrypted. Such data must also be deleted after use [SEC-3304].

See also §[ REF _Ref204169342 \r \h ] and §[ REF _Ref204169468 \r \h ] for policies on
the protection from loss.

15.1.4. Data protection and privacy of personal information

Control A15.1.4: Data protection and privacy must be ensured as required in relevant
legislation, regulations, and, if applicable, contractual clauses.

Account identifiers, such as the PAN in a banking transaction, can be considered to
identify an individual in the context of the Data Protection Act 1998. The body
responsible for maintaining the account is deemed to be the Data Controller as defined
by the Act. For instance, Alliance & Leicester is the Data Controller for personal data
relating to transactions involving cards it has issued. Similarly, other Horizon /
Horizon Online transactions containing an account identifier, or other data capable of
identifying an individual, may have a Data Controller who is a Third Party in the
context of Horizon / Horizon Online. Where Post Office Ltd is not the Data Controller
it must ensure it has the authority to delegate Data Processing to a domain. All other
Horizon / Horizon Online domains are a Data Processor as defined by the Act and
must only process personal data for the purposes specified in the relevant Horizon /
Horizon Online contract and associated specifications.

Any data associated with an account identifier must be treated as personal data as
defined by the Act. Any person claiming to be the data subject and requesting access to
the personal data must be referred to the organisation responsible for the account as the
body capable of authenticating the request. Any other requests for access to the
personal data, other than by authorised Post Office staff, must be declined unless
supported by a duly authorised legal warrant.

The Data Protection Act also identifies certain personal data as Sensitive Personal Data.
The relevant Data Controller is responsible for identifying such data as Sensitive
Personal Data and must inform those responsible for implementing the Horizon /
Horizon Online system so that appropriate additional security measures can be taken -
see §[ REF _Ref199321405 \r \h ]({ REF _Ref205974982 \r \h J.

Version +.32.0
Page 70

POL-BSFF-0223787_0069
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

Post Office Ltd. has developed a policy which covers the handling of Freedom of
Information requests by customers for third party services delivered over the Counter.
The Freedom of Information Act does not permit the release of personal data covered
by the Data Protection Act.

15.1.5. Prevention of misuse of information processing facilities

Control A15.1.5: Users must be deterred from using information processing facilities for
unauthorized purposes.

The Horizon / Horizon Online facilities are provided strictly for business purposes.
Any use of these facilities for non-business or other purposes not associated with
Horizon / Horizon Online, will be regarded as improper use of the facilities. If such
activity is identified by monitoring or other means, it must be brought to the attention
of the individual manager concerned for appropriate disciplinary action (see §8.2.3).
The security incident reporting procedures (see §13) must be used where one domain
detects misuse by staff of another domain.

15.1.6. Regulation of cryptographic controls

Control A15.1.6: Cryptographic controls must be used in compliance with all relevant
agreements, laws, and regulations.

Some countries have implemented agreements, laws, regulations or other instruments
to control the access to or use of cryptographic controls. Such control may include:

a) import and/or export of computer hardware and software for performing
cryptographic functions;

b) import and/or export of computer hardware and software which is designed to
have cryptographic functions added to it;

c) mandatory or discretionary methods of access by the countries to information
encrypted by hardware or software to provide confidentiality of content.

Before encrypted information or cryptographic controls are moved to another country,
legal advice should be taken.

Legal advice should also be sought to ensure compliance with the Regulation of
Investigatory Powers Act 2000. Note that PINs are an authentication mechanism as
defined by the act and thus the act does not apply to PINs or the keys used to protect
them.

See §[ REF _Ref204172827 \r \h ] for the policy on the collection of evidence.

Version 4.32.0
Page 71

POL-BSFF-0223787_0070
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

15.2. Reviews of security policy and technical compliance

Objective: To ensure compliance of systems with relevant security policies and
standards.

15.2.1. Compliance with security policies and standards

Control A15.2.1: Managers in each domain must ensure that all security procedures
within their area of responsibility are carried out correctly to achieve compliance with
security policies and standards.

The security of information systems must be regularly reviewed. Such reviews must be
performed against the Horizon / Horizon Online security policy and any other
applicable security policies.

15.2.2. Technical compliance checking

Control A15.2.2: Information systems must be regularly checked for compliance with
security implementation standards.

Technical platforms and information systems must be audited for compliance with
security policy at planned intervals, and after any major change! and after any major
security incident:

a) Firewall and router rule sets, especially those protecting the system boundary and the
Cardholder Data Environment, must be reviewed at least quarterly.

b) Security controls, limitations, network connections, and restrictions must be tested at
least annually to assure compliance with the access control policy (see §[ REF
_Ref199319275 \r \h J).

c) Ascan of live data centres and operational support centres must be performed at least
quarterly to demonstrate compliance with the policy in §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT J[ REF _Ref199321772 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT ] (policy
prohibiting the use of wireless technologies). [SEC-3191]

d) Vulnerability scans of any internal IP port which provides access to the Cardholder
Environment must be performed at least quarterly. Scans must be routinely scheduled
and performed to confirm all ports are configured to support the network access
control policy (see §[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h ]).

e) Vulnerability scans must be performed at least quarterly by a scan vendor qualified by
the payment card industry on any IP port which provides access to the Cardholder
Environment from the Internet.

f) Penetration tests must be performed routinely to confirm Horizon Online is not

4 Including after new system component installations, changes in network topology, firewall rule

modifications, product upgrades, etc.

Version 4.32.0
Page 72

POL-BSFF-0223787_0071
IT Directorate

POL00397117
POL00397117

PSO Process

Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

susceptible to known hacking exploits. Penetration tests of the Cardholder
Environment must be performed at least annually at both network layer and at
application layer. Tests of other elements of the system can be scheduled based on a
risk assessment of the consequences and likelihood of a successful attack. All tests must
be performed in accordance with Royal Mail Group Policy S7 - Security Health Check
Policy.

g) File integrity checks (see §[ REF _Ref204174088 \r \h ]) must be performed at least
weekly.

h) LINK requires an annual statement of compliance with the LINK ATM Scheme
Information Security Standard (LASISS). Post Office Ltd must produce and submit the
statement. Domains must co-operate with Post Office Ltd in the preparation of the
statement.

15.3. Information Systems Audit Considerations

Objective: To maximize the effectiveness of and to minimize interference to/from the
information systems audit process.

Domain suppliers must implement the following ISO / IEC 27001 controls. Domain
suppliers are referred to the corresponding section of ISO/IEC 27002 for guidance on
interpretation.

Control A15.3.1: Audit requirements and activities involving checks on operational
systems must be carefully planned and agreed to minimize the risk of disruptions to
business processes.

Control A15.3.2: Access to information systems audit tools must be protected to prevent
any possible misuse or compromise.

Post Office Ltd retains the right to review activity records of all Horizon / Horizon
Online domains for any evidence of authority misuse or other failure to comply with
this policy and associated procedures.

Audit requirements and activities must be planned to minimise the risk of disruption to
Horizon / Horizon Online.

See §[ REF _Ref205722532 \r \h \* MERGEFORMAT J for the policy on creating a transaction
audit trail.

Access to system audit tools must be safeguarded to prevent any possible misuse or
compromise.

Version 4.32.0

Page 73

POL-BSFF-0223787_0072
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

Annex A — Mapping PCI DSS controls to ISO/IEC 27001 controls

This Appendix provides a cross-reference to the policy in this document which addresses the various
PCI DSS controls. Reference to a heading number includes reference to all sub-headings under that

heading nuntber.

Build and Maintain a Secure Network

Requirement 1: Install and maintain a firewall configuration to protect cardholder data

PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
11 Establish firewall configuration standards that include the §[ REF _Ref199224556 \r \h
following: \* MERGEFORMAT J]

1.1.1 A formal process for approving and testing all
external network connections and changes to the firewall
configuration

§[ REF _Ref199224618 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199309868 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199310383 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.1.2 Acurrent network diagram with all connections to
cardholder data, including any wireless networks

§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT Jf
REF _Ref199310662 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J

1.1.3 Requirements for a firewall at each Internet
connection and between any demilitarized zone (DMZ) and
the internal network zone

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT Jf
REF _Ref199242230 \w \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref199315812 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205723895 \r \h J,
§[ REF _Ref199319038 \r
\h_\* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.1.4 Description of groups, roles, and responsibilities for
logical management of network components

§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I, §[
REF _Ref199319275 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I

1.1.5 Documentation and business justification for use of
all services, protocols, and ports allowed, including
documentation of security features implemented for those
protocols considered to be insecure

§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I, §[
REF _Ref205723895 \r \h ]

Version 4.32.0
Page 74

POL-BSFF-0223787_0073

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

1.1.6 Quarterly review of firewall and router rule sets

§[ REF _Ref199319856 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.2 Build a firewall configuration that restricts connections
between untrusted networks'5 and any system components in the
cardholder data environment.

§[ REF _Ref199319948 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199320012 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref205723895 \r

\h]

1.2.1 Restrict inbound and outbound traffic to that which
is necessary for the cardholder data environment.

§[ REF _Ref199319948 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199320012 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref205723895 \r
\h]

1.2.2. Secure and synchronize router configuration files.

§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r

\h], §[ REF _Ref199321559
\r\h \* MERGEFORMAT
]

1.2.3 Install perimeter firewalls between any wireless
networks and the cardholder data environment, and
configure these firewalls to deny or control (if such traffic is
necessary for business purposes) any traffic from the
wireless environment into the cardholder data environment.

See §[ REF _Ref199225557
\r\h \* MERGEFORMAT
][ REF _Ref199321772 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]
prohibiting the use of
wireless technology.

1.3 Prohibit direct public access between the Internet and any
system component in the cardholder data environment.

1.3.1 Implement a DMZ to limit inbound and outbound
traffic to only protocols that are necessary for the cardholder
data environment.

Note: Horizon Online should
not contain publically
accessible servers or wireless
networks - see §[ REF
_Ref199320231 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT I

1.3.2 Limit inbound Internet traffic to IP addresses within
the DMZ.

§[ REF _Ref199234799 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J

1.3.3 Do not allow any direct routes inbound or outbound
for traffic between the Internet and the cardholder data
environment.

§[ REF _Ref199234799 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199320873 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

15 Note: An “untrusted network” is any network that is external to the networks belonging to the entity
under review, and/or which is out of the entity's ability to control or manage.

Version +.32.0
Page 75

POL-BSFF-0223787_0074

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

1.3.4 Do not allow internal addresses to pass from the
Internet into the DMZ

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.3.5 Restrict outbound traffic from the cardholder data
environment to the Internet such that outbound traffic can
only access IP addresses within the DMZ.

§[ REF _Ref199234799 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199320873 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.3.6 Implementing stateful inspection, also known as
dynamic packet filtering (that is, only “established”
connections are allowed into the network)

§[ REF _Ref199321036 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.3.7 Placing the database in an internal network zone,
segregated from the DMZ

§[ REF _Ref199321405 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]({
REF _Ref199321431 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ], §[
REF _Ref199321137 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ]

1.3.8 Implement IP masquerading to prevent internal
addresses from being translated and revealed on the
Internet. Use technologies that implement RFC 1918 address
space, such as port address translation (PAT) or network
address translation (NAT).

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205723895 \r \h ]

14 Instal personal firewall software on any mobile and
employee-owned computers with direct connectivity to the Internet
(for example, laptops used by employees), which are used to access
the organization’s network.

§[ REF _Ref199321888 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref205723895 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref199321930
\r\h \* MERGEFORMAT

]

security parameters.

Requirement 2: Do not use vendor-supplied defaults for syst

fem passwords and other

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

21 Always change vendor-supplied defaults before installing a
system on the network (for example, include passwords, simple
network management protocol (SNMP) community strings, and
elimination of unnecessary accounts).

§[ REF _Ref199322719 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

2.1.1 For wireless environments, connected to the
cardholder data environment or transmitting cardholder
data, change wireless vendor defaults, including but not
limited to default wireless encryption keys, passwords, and
SNMP community strings. Ensure wireless device security
settings are enabled for strong encryption technology for
authentication and transmission.

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ][
REF _Ref199321772 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ]

Version 4.32.0
Page 76

POL-BSFF-0223787_0075

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

2.2. Develop configuration standards for all system components.
Assure that these standards address all known security
vulnerabilities and are consistent with industry-accepted system
hardening.

§[ REF _Ref199224556 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,

2.2.1 Implement only one primary function per server

§[ REF _Ref199321405 \r
\h ] Control A10.8.5 Item ([
REF _Ref205726302 \r \h ],
§[ REF _Ref199324218 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

2.2.2 Disable all unnecessary and insecure services and
protocols (services and protocols not directly needed to
perform the devices’ specified function)

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199324570 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref205974138 \r

\h]

2.2.3 Configure system security parameters to prevent
misuse

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref205974138 \r

\h]

2.2.4 Remove all unnecessary functionality, such as
scripts, drivers, features, subsystems, file systems, and
unnecessary web servers.

§[ REF _Ref199324860 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref205974138 \r

\h]

2.3 Encrypt all non-console administrative access. Use
technologies such as SSH, VPN, or SSL/TLS for web-based
management and other non-console administrative access.

§[ REF _Ref199325579 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

2.4 Shared Hosting providers must protect each entity’s hosted
environment and data. These providers must meet specific
requirements as detailed in Appendix A: “PCI DSS Applicability for
Hosting Providers.”

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Protect Cardholder Data

Requirement 3: Protect stored cardholder data

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

3.1 Keep cardholder data storage to a minimum. Develop a data
retention and disposal policy. Limit storage amount and retention
time to that which is required for business, legal, and/or regulatory
purposes, as documented in the data retention policy.

§[ REF _Ref199325690 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205974597 \r \h ]

Version 4.32.0
Page 77

POL-BSFF-0223787_0076

POL00397117

POL00397117
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online
PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
52 Do not store sensitive authentication data subsequent to §[ REF _Ref199325756 \r \h
authorization (even if encrypted). \* MERGEFORMAT ], §[

Sensitive authentication data includes the data as cited in the
following Requirements 3.2.1 through 3.2.3:

REF _Ref205974597 \r \h ]

3.2.1 Do not store the full contents of any track from the
magnetic stripe (that is on the back of a card, in a chip or
elsewhere). This data is alternatively called full track, track,
track 1, track 2, and magnetic stripe data

In the normal course of business, the following data elements from
the magnetic stripe may need to be retained: the accountholder’s
name, primary account number (PAN), expiration date, and
service code. To minimize risk, store only those data elements
needed for business.

Note: See “PCI DSS Glossary” for additional information.

§[ REF _Ref199325811 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I, §[
REF _Ref199240475 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205974597 \r \h]

3.2.2 Do not store the card-verification code or value
(three-digit or four-digit number printed on the front or
back of a payment card) used to verify card-not-present
transactions

Note: See “[PCI DSS] Glossary” for additional information.

§[ REF _Ref199325811 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I], §[
REF _Ref199240475 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205974597 \r \h ]

3.2.3. Do not store the personal identification number
(PIN) or the encrypted PIN block.

§[ REF _Ref199325811 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref 199240475 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J, §[
REF _Ref205974597 \r \h ]

3.3 Mask PAN when displayed (the first six and last four digits
are the maximum number of digits to be displayed).

Note: This requirement does not apply to employees and other parties with
a legitimate business need to see the full PAN; the requirement does not
supersede stricter requirements in place for displays of cardholder data (for
example, for point-of-sale [POS] receipts).

§[ REF _Ref199326704 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I, §[
REF _Ref205974597 \r \h ]

3.4 Render PAN, at minimum, unreadable anywhere it is stored
(including data on portable digital media, backup media, in logs) by
using any of the following approaches:

« One-way hashes based on strong cryptography

¢ Truncation

e Index tokens and pads (pads must be securely stored)

¢ Strong cryptography with associated key management

processes and procedures

The MINIMUM account information that must be rendered
unreadable is the PAN.
If for some reason, a company is unable to encrypt cardholder data, refer to
[PCI DSS] Appendix B: “Compensating Controls.”
Strong cryptography” is defined in the PCI DSS Glossary of
Terms, Abbreviations, and Acronyms.

§[ REF _Ref199326772 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ][ REF
_Ref199326827 \r\h \*
MERGEFORMAT J , §[ REF
_Ref205974597 \r \h ]

Version +-32.0
Page 78

POL-BSFF-0223787_0077
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.

3.4.1 _ If disk encryption is used (rather than file- or
column-level database encryption), logical access must be
managed independently of native operating system access
control mechanisms (for example, by not using local system
or Active Directory accounts). Decryption keys must not be
tied to user accounts.

§[ REF _Ref199327186 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.5

Protect encryption keys used for encryption of cardholder

data against both disclosure and misuse:

§[ REF _Ref199327199 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J

3.5.1 Restrict access to keys to the fewest number of
custodians necessary

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.5.2 Store keys securely in the fewest possible locations
and forms

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6

Fully document and implement all key management

processes and procedures for keys used for encryption of
cardholder data, including the following:

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT I

3.6.1 Generation of strong cryptographic keys

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT I

3.6.2 Secure cryptographic key distribution

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6.3 Secure cryptographic key storage

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6.4 Periodic cryptographic key changes
« As deemed necessary and recommended by the
associated application (for example, re-keying);
preferably automatically

e Atleast annually

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6.5 Retirement or replacement of old or suspected
compromised cryptographic keys

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6.6 Split knowledge and establishment of dual control of
cryptographic keys

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT I

3.6.7 Prevention of unauthorized substitution of
cryptographic keys

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

3.6.8 Requirement for key custodians to sign a form
stating that they understand and accept their key-custodian
responsibilities

§[ REF _Ref199327975 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Requirement 4: Encrypt transmission of cardholder data across open, public

networks

[PCI DSS Requirements

[Policy Ref.

Version 4.32.0
Page 79

POL-BSFF-0223787_0078

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

41 Use strong cryptography and security protocols such as
SSL/TLS or IPSEC to safeguard sensitive cardholder data during
transmission over open, public networks.

Examples of open, public networks that are in scope of the PCI DSS are the
Internet, Wireless technologies, Global System for Mobile communications
(GSM), and General Packet Radio Service (GPRS).

§[ REF _Ref199330567 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT Jf
REF _Ref199330599 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ]

4.1.1 Ensure wireless networks transmitting cardholder

data or connected to the cardholder data environment, use

industry best practices (for example, IEEE 802.11i) to

implement strong encryption for authentication and

transmission.

© For new wireless implementations, it is prohibited to implement
WEP after March 31, 2009.

© For current wireless implementations, it is prohibited to use WEP
after June 30, 2010.

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J
REF _Ref199321772 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ]
(policy prohibiting the use
of WiFi)

42 Never send unencrypted PANSs by end-user messaging
technologies (for example, e-mail, instant messaging, chat).

§[ REF _Ref199330947 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT Jf
REF _Ref205975627 \n \h]
& [ REF _Ref199330599 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Maintain a Vulnerability Management Program

Requirement 5: Use and regularly update anti-virus software or programs

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

51 Deploy anti-virus software on all systems commonly
affected by malicious software (particularly personal computers
and servers)

§[ REF _Ref199331003 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

5.1.1 Ensure that anti-virus programs are capable of
detecting, removing, and protecting against other forms of
malicious software.

§[ REF _Ref199224960 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

5.2 Ensure that all anti-virus mechanisms are current, actively
running, and capable of generating audit logs.

§[ REF _Ref199224960 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

Requirement 6: Develop and maintain secure systems and applications

[PCLDSS Requirements

[Policy Ref.

Version 4.32.0
Page 80

POL-BSFF-022:

'3787_0079
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

6.1 Ensure that all system components and software have the

latest vendor-supplied security patches installed. Install critical

security patches within one month of release.
Note: An organization may consider applying a risk-based approach to
prioritize their patch installations. For example, by prioritizing critical
infrastructure (for example, public-facing devices and systems, databases)
higher than less-critical internal devices, to ensure high-priority systems
and devices are addressed within one month, and addressing less critical
devices and systems within three months.

§[ REF _Ref199331121 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.2 Establish a process to identify newly discovered security
vulnerabilities (for example, subscribe to alert services freely
available on the Internet). Update configuration standards as
required by PCI DSS Requirement 2.2 to address new vulnerability
issues.

§[ REF _Ref199331121 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.3 Develop software applications in accordance with PCI DSS
(for example, secure authentication and logging) and based on
industry best practices, and incorporate information security
throughout the software development life cycle. These processes
must include the following:

§[ REF _Ref199331704 \n
\h]

6.3.1 Testing of all security patches and system and
software configuration changes before deployment,
including but not limited to the following:

6.3.1.1 Validation of all input (to prevent cross-site
scripting, injection flaws, malicious file execution,
etc.)

6.3.1.2 Validation of proper error handling

6.3.1.3 Validation of secure cryptographic storage

6.3.1.4 Validation of secure communications

6.3.1.5 Validation of proper role-based access control

§[ REF _Ref199310383 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref199331332
\r\h \* MERGEFORMAT
], SL REF _Ref199333408 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref205974138
\r\h ]({ REF
_Ref252473651 \w \h]

(RBAC)
6.3.2 Separate development/ test and production §[ REF _Ref199331482 \r
environments \h_\* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.3.3 Separation of duties between development/ test and
production environments

§[ REF _Ref199331541 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199331582 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.3.4 Production data (live PANs) are not used for testing
or development

§[ REF _Ref252542915 \r
\h]

6.3.5 Removal of test data and accounts before production
systems become active

§[ REF _Ref252542915 \r
\hJ

6.3.6 Removal of custom application accounts, User IDs,
and passwords before applications become active or are
released to customers

§[ REF _Ref199319275 \r
\h J], S[ REF _Ref252542915
\r\hJ

Version +.32.0
Page 81

POL-BSFF-0223787_0080

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

6.3.7 Review of custom code prior to release to production
or customers in order to identify any potential coding
vulnerability.

Note: This requirement for code reviews applies to all custom code (both
internal and public-facing), as part of the system development life cycle
required by PCI DSS Requirement 6.3. Code reviews can be conducted
by knowledgeable internal personnel or third parties. Web applications
are also subject to additional controls, if they are public facing, to address
ongoing threats and vulnerabilities after implementation, as defined at
PCI DSS Requirement 6.6.

§[ REF _Ref199332221 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199332335 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

64 Follow change control procedures for all system and
software configuration changes. The procedures must include the
following:

§[ REF _Ref199332589 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199240880 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.4.1 Documentation of impact

§[ REF _Ref199332589 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199240880 \r
\h_\* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.4.2 Management sign-off by appropriate parties

§[ REF _Ref199332589 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref199240880 \r
\h_\* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.4.3. Testing of operational functionality

§[ REF _Ref199332925 \r
\h_\* MERGEFORMAT ]

6.4.4 Back-out procedures

§[ REF _Ref199332589 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref205974138 \r
\h]

65 Develop all web applications (internal and external, and
including web administrative access to application) based on secure
coding guidelines, such as the Open Web Application Security Project
Guidelines. Review custom application code to identify coding
vulnerabilities. Cover prevention of common coding vulnerabilities
in software development processes, to include the following:

Note: The vulnerabilities listed at 6.5.1 through 6.5.10 were current in the
OWASP guide when PCI DSS v1.2 was published. However, if and when the
OWASP guide is updated, the current version must be used for these

§[ REF _Ref199333408 \r

\h ], §[ REF _Ref199333103
\r \h \* MERGEFORMAT
]

consider LDAP and Xpath injection flaws as well as other
injection flaws.

6.5.3 Malicious file execution

6.5.4 _ Insecure direct object references

6.5.5 Cross-site request forgery (CSRF)

Version 4.32.0
Page 82

requirements.
6.5.1 Cross-site scripting (XSS)
6.5.2 Injection flaws, particularly SQL injection. Also §[ REF _Ref199333103 \r

\h \* MERGEFORMAT ],
§[ REF _Ref199333408 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT ]

POL-BSFF-0223787_0081

POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
6.5.6 _ Information leakage and improper error handling
6.5.7 __ Broken authentication and session management
6.5.8 Insecure cryptographic storage
6.5.9 Insecure communications
6.5.10 Failure to restrict URL access
6.6 For public-facing web-facing applications address new §[ REF _Ref199333103 \r
threats and vulnerabilities on an ongoing basis and ensure these \h \* MERGEFORMAT ]
applications are protected against known attacks by either of the
following methods:
¢ Reviewing public-facing web applications via manual or
automated application vulnerability security assessment
tools or methods, at least annually and after any changes
e Installing a web-application firewall in front of public-facing
web applications

Implement Strong Access Control Measures

Requirement 7: Restrict access to cardholder data by business need-to-know

PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
71 Limit access to system components and cardholder data to
only those individuals whose job requires such access. Access
limitations must include the following:
7.1.1 Restriction of access rights to privileged user IDs to
least privileges necessary to perform job responsibilities
7.1.2 Assignment of privileges is based on individual
personnel’s job classification and function
7.1.3 Requirement for an authorization form signed by
management that specifies required privileges
7.1.4 Implementation of an automated access control system
7.2 Establish an access control system for systems components
with multiple users that restricts access based on a user’s need to
know, and is set to “deny all” unless specifically allowed.
This access control system must include the following:

§[ REF _Ref199320474 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref205979241

\r\h]

§[ REF _Ref 199320474 \r
7.2.1 Coverage of all system components \h ], §[ REF _Ref205979241

\r\h]

7.2.2 Assignment of privileges to individuals based on job
classification and function

7.2.3 Default “deny-all” setting

Version 4.32.0
Page 83

POL-BSFF-0223787_0082
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

Requirement 8: Assign a unique ID to each person with computer access.

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

8.1 Assign all users a unique ID before allowing them to access
system components or cardholder data.

§[ REF _Ref199334374 \r
\h ({ REF _Ref205979412
\n\h] & (( REF
_Ref205979423 \n \h J, §[
REF _Ref199334509 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT J

8.2 In addition to assigning a unique ID, employ at least one of

the following methods to authenticate all users:

« Password or passphrase

« Two-factor authentication (for example, token devices, smart
cards, biometrics, or public keys)

§[ REF _Ref199334509 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J,
§[ REF _Ref204157318 \n
\h]

8.3 Implement two-factor authentication for remote access
(network-level access originating from outside the network) to the
network by employees, administrators, and third parties. Use
technologies such as remote authentication and dial-in service
(RADIUS) or terminal access controller access control system
(TACACS) with tokens; or VPN (based on SSL/TLS or IPSEC) with
individual certificates.

§[ REF _Ref204157318 \r
\h]

8.4 Render all passwords unreadable during transmission and
storage on all system components using strong cryptography
(defined in PCI DSS Glossary of Terms, Abbreviations, and
Acronyms).

§[ REF _Ref204157704 \r
\h]

8.5 Ensure proper user authentication and password
management for non-consumer users and administrators on all
system components as follows:
8.5.1 Control addition, deletion, and modification of user
IDs, credentials, and other identifier objects

§[ REF _Ref204158763 \r
\h]

8.5.2 Verify user identity before performing password
resets

§[ REF _Ref204159525 \r
\h]

8.5.3 Set first-time passwords to a unique value for each
user and change immediately after the first use

§[ REF _Ref204159541 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref205979916
\n\h]

8.5.4 Immediately revoke access for any terminated users

§[ REF _Ref204159680 \r

\h ], §[ REF _Ref205979983

\r\h], §[ REF
Ref204166900 \r \h ]

8.5.5 Remove inactive user accounts at least every 90 days

§[ REF _Ref204160179 \r
\h] & §[ REF
_Ref204162222 \r \h ]

8.5.6 Enable accounts used by vendors for remote
maintenance only during the time period needed

§[ REF _Ref204162563 \r
\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 84

POL-BSFF-0223787_0083
POL00397117

POL00397117
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online
PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
8.5.7 Communicate password procedures and policies to I §[ REF _Ref204163482 \r
all users who have access to cardholder data \h] & §[ REF
_Ref204163467 \r\h]

8.5.8 Do not use group, shared, or generic accounts and
passwords

§[ REF _Ref204163532 \r
\h]

8.5.9 Change user passwords at least every 90 days

§[ REF _Ref204163580 \r
\h]

8.5.10 Require a minimum password length of at least
seven characters

§[ REF _Ref204163593 \r
\h]

8.5.11 Use passwords containing both numeric and.
alphabetic characters

§[ REF _Ref204163609 \r
\h]

8.5.12 Do not allow an individual to submit a new
password that is the same as any of the last four passwords
he or she has used

§[ REF _Ref204163622 \r
\h]

8.5.13 Limit repeated access attempts by locking out the
user ID after not more than six attempts

§[ REF _Ref204163641 \r
\h]

8.5.14 Set the lockout duration to thirty minutes or until
administrator enables the user ID

§[ REF _Ref204164317 \r
\h]

8.5.15 If a session has been idle for more than 15 minutes,
require the user to re-enter the password to re-activate the
terminal

§[ REF _Ref204164587 \r
\h]

8.5.16 Authenticate all access to any database containing
cardholder data. This includes access by applications,
administrators, and all other users

§[ REF _Ref199319275 \n
\h J, §[ REF _Ref204165907
\r\h], §[ REF
_Ref199333408 \r \h I(L
REF _Ref205980235 \n \h
L

Requirement 9: Restrict physical access to cardholder data.

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

91 Use appropriate facility entry controls to limit and monitor
physical access to systems that store, process, or transmit
cardholder data.

§[ REF _Ref204166181 \r
\h]

9.1.1 Use video cameras or other access control
mechanisms to monitor individual physical access to
sensitive areas. Review collected data and correlate with
other entries. Store for at least three months, unless
otherwise restricted by law.

Note: “Sensitive areas” refers to any data center, server room or any area
that houses systems that store, process, or transmit cardholder data. This
excludes the areas where only point-of-sale terminals are present, such as
the cashier areas in a retail store.

§[ REF _Ref204167180 \r
\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 85

POL-BSFF-022:

'3787_0084
POL00397117
POL00397117

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

9.1.2 Restrict physical access to publicly accessible
network jacks

§[ REF _Ref204167965 \r
\h]

9.1.3 Restrict physical access to wireless access points,
gateways, and handheld devices

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \r
\h \* MERGEFORMAT J
REF _Ref199321772 \r \h
\* MERGEFORMAT ]
(policy prohibiting the use
of wireless technologies)

9.2 Develop procedures to help all personnel easily distinguish
between employees and visitors, especially in areas where
cardholder data is accessible.

For the purposes of this requirement, “employee” refers to full-time and
part-time employees, temporary employees and personnel, and consultants
who are “resident” on the entity's site. A “visitor” is defined as a vendor,
guest of an employee, service personnel, or anyone who needs to enter the
facility for a short duration, usually not more than one day.

§[ REF _Ref204168168 \r
\h ](( REF _Ref204168197
\r\h]

9.3 Make sure all visitors are handled as follows:
9.3.1 Authorized before entering areas where cardholder _I §[ REF _Ref204168244 \r
data is processed or maintained \h]
9.3.2. Given a physical token (for example, a badge or §[ REF _Ref204168255 \r
access device) that expires and that identifies the visitors as_I\h]
non-employees
9.3.3 Asked to surrender the physical token before leaving I §[ REF _Ref204168626 \r
the facility or at the date of expiration \h ]([ REF _Ref204168628
\r \h], §[ REF
—Ref204170730 \r \h ]
94 Use a visitor log to maintain a physical audit trail of visitor I §[ REF _Ref204168626 \r

activity. Document the visitor’s name, the firm represented, and the
employee authorizing physical access on the log. Retain this log for
a minimum of three months, unless otherwise restricted by law.

\h ({ REF _Ref204168663
\r\h]

9.5 Store media back-ups in a secure location, preferably an off-
site facility, such as an alternate or backup site, or a commercial
storage facility. Review the location’s security at least annually.

§[ REF _Ref204169342 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref204169269
\r\h]

9.6 Physically secure all paper and electronic media that
contain cardholder data

§[ REF _Ref204170129 \r
\h], SL REF _Ref204169269
\r\h]

9.7 Maintain strict control over the internal or external
distribution of any kind of media that contains cardholder data:
including the following
9.7.1 Classify the media so it can be identified as
confidential

§[ REF _Ref204170172 \r
\h ], SL REF _Ref204169269
\r\h]

9.7.2. Send the media by secured courier or other delivery
method that can be accurately tracked

§[ REF _Ref204170184 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref204169269
\r\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 86

POL-BSFF-0223787_0085

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

9.8 Ensure management approves any and all media that is
moved from a secured area (especially when media is distributed to
individuals).

§[ REF _Ref204171645 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref204169269
\r\h]

9.9 Maintain strict control over the storage and accessibility of
media that contains cardholder data.
9.9.1 Properly maintain inventory logs of all media and
conduct media inventories at least annually.

§[ REF _Ref204171775 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref204169269
\r\hJ

9.10 Destroy media containing cardholder data when it is no
longer needed for business or legal reasons as follows
9.10.1 Shred, incinerate, or pulp hardcopy materials so that
cardholder data cannot be reconstructed

§[ REF _Ref204172318 \r
\h]

9.10.2 Render cardholder data on electronic media
unrecoverable so that cardholder data cannot be
reconstructed.

§[ REF _Ref204172327 \r
\h]

Regularly Monitor and Test Networks

Requirement 10: Track and monitor all access to network resources and cardholder

data.
PCI DSS Requirements Policy Ref.
10.1. Establish a process for linking all access to system §[ REF _Ref204174785 \r

components (especially access done with administrative privileges
such as root) to each individual user.

\h]

10.2 Implement automated audit trails for all system components
to reconstruct the following events:
10.2.1 All individual accesses to cardholder data

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref205980674
\r\h]

10.2.2 All actions taken by any individual with root or
administrative privileges

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref205980674

\r\h]

10.2.3 Access to all audit trails

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.2.4 Invalid logical access attempts

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.25 Use of identification and authentication mechanisms

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.2.6 Initialization of the audit logs

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 87

POL-BSFF-022:

'3787_0086
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

10.2.7 Creation and deletion of system-level objects

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3 Record at least the following audit trail entries for all system
components for each event:
10.3.1 User identification

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3.2 Type of event

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3.3. Date and time

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3.4 Success or failure indication

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3.5 Origination of event

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

10.3.6 Identity or name of affected data, system component,
or resource

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

reviews must include those servers that perform security functions
like intrusion detection system (IDS) and authentication,
authorization, and accounting protocol (AAA) servers (for example,
RADIUS).

Note: Log harvesting, parsing, and alerting tools may be used to meet
compliance with Requirement 10.6

10.4 Synchronize all critical system clocks and times §[ REF _Ref204174142 \r
\h]

10.5 Secure audit trails so they cannot be altered
10.5.1 Limit viewing of audit trails to those with a job- §[ REF _Ref204174393 \r
related need \h]
10.5.2 Protect audit trail files from unauthorized §[ REF _Ref204174324 \r
modifications \h]
10.5.3. Promptly back up audit trail files to a centralized log I §[ REF _Ref204174589 \r
server or media that is difficult to alter. \h]
10.5.4 Write logs for external-facing technologies'® onto a §[ REF _Ref204174589 \r
log server on the internal LAN. \h]
10.5.5 Use file integrity monitoring or change detection §[ REF _Ref204174324 \r
software on logs to ensure that existing log data cannot be \h]
changed without generating alerts (although new data being
added should not cause an alert)

10.6 Review logs for all system components at least daily. Log §[ REF _Ref204174088 \r

\h]

10.7 _ Retain audit trail history for at least one year, with a
minimum of three months immediately available for analysis (for
example, online, archived, or restorable from back-up).

§[ REF _Ref199325690 \r
\h]

16 for example, wireless, firewalls, DNS, mail

Version 4.32.0
Page 88

POL-BSFF-0223787_0087
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

Requirement 11: Regularly test security systems and processes.

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

11.1 Test for the presence of wireless access points by using a
wireless analyzer at least quarterly or deploying a wireless IDS/IPS
to identify all wireless devices in use.

§[ REF _Ref199319856 \r
\h (I REF _Ref206215645

\w\h]

11.2 Run internal and external network vulnerability scans at
least quarterly and after any significant change in the network
(such as new system component installations, changes in network
topology, firewall rule modifications, product upgrades).

Note: Quarterly external vulnerability scans must be performed by a scan
vendor qualified by the payment card industry. Scans conducted after
network changes may be performed by the company’s internal staff.

§[ REF _Ref199319856 \r
\h] (( REF _Ref252298890
\r\h] & (REF
_Ref252298893 \r \h ]

11.3. Perform external and internal penetration testing at least
once a year and after any significant infrastructure or application
upgrade or modification (such as an operating system upgrade, a
sub-network added to the environment, or a web server added to
the environment). These penetration tests must include the
following

11.3.1 Network-layer penetration tests

11.3.2. Application-layer penetration tests

§[ REF _Ref199319856 \n
\h \* MERGEFORMAT I({
REF _Ref206419799 \n \h ]

11.4 Use intrusion-detection systems and/or intrusion
prevention systems to monitor all traffic in the cardholder data
environment and alert personnel to suspected compromises. Keep
all intrusion detection and prevention engines up-to-date.

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h]

11.5 Deploy file integrity monitoring software to alert personnel
to unauthorized modification of critical system or content files; and
configure the software to perform critical file comparisons at least
weekly.

Note: For file integrity monitoring purposes, critical files are usually those
that do not regularly change, but the modification of which could indicate
a system compromise or risk of conpromise. File integrity monitoring
products usually come pre-configured with critical files for the related
operating system. Other critical files, such as those for custom
applications, must be evaluated and defined by the entity (that is the
merchant or service provider)

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref199319856
\r\h]({ REF
_Ref206220249 \n \h]

Maintain an Information Security Policy

Requirement 12: Maintain a policy that addresses information security for employees

and contractors.

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

12.1 Establish, publish, maintain, and disseminate a security
policy that accomplishes the following:

Version 4.32.0
Page 89

POL-BSFF-022:

'3787_0088
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

12.1.1_ Addresses all PCI DSS requirements

This document.

12.1.2 Includes an annual process that identifies threats,
and vulnerabilities, and results in a formal risk assessment

§[ REF _Ref206220387 \n
\h]

12.1.3 Includes a review at least once a year and updates
when the environment changes

§[ REF _Ref206419834 \n
\h]

12.2

Develop daily operational security procedures that are

consistent with requirements in this specification (for example, user
account maintenance procedures, and log review procedures).

§[ REF _Ref199224618 \n
\h]

12.3

Develop usage policies for critical employee-facing

technologies (for example, remote-access technologies, wireless
technologies, removable electronic media, laptops, personal

data/ digital assistants (PDAs), e-mail usage and Internet usage) to
define proper use of these technologies for all employees and
contractors. Ensure these usage policies require the following:

§[ REF _Ref206223763 \n
\h ], §[ REF _Ref206225198
\n\h]

Also see §[ REF
_Ref199225557 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT J][ REF
_Ref199321772 \r\h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]
prohibiting the use of
wireless technology.

12.3.1 Explicit management approval

§[ REF _Ref206228103 \n
\h ], §[ REF _Ref199309597

\n\h]

12.3.2 Authentication for use of the technology

§[ REF _Ref199319275 \n
\h]

12.3.3 A list of all such devices and personnel with access

§[ REF _Ref204171775 \n
\h]

12.3.4 Labeling of devices with owner, contact information,
and purpose

§[ REF _Ref206229978 \n
\h]

12.3.5 Acceptable uses of the technology

§[ REF _Ref206229629 \n
\h]

12.3.6 Acceptable network locations for the technologies

§[ REF _Ref199315812 \n
\h]

Also see §[ REF
_Ref199225557 \r \h \*
MERGEFORMAT ][ REF
_Ref199321772 \r\h \*
MERGEFORMAT ]
prohibiting the use of
wireless technology.

12.3.7 List of company-approved products

§[ REF _Ref199319275 \r
\h]

12.3.8 Automatic disconnect of sessions for remote-access
technologies after a specific period of inactivity

§[ REF _Ref204163732 \n
\h], §[ REF _Ref199324570

\n\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 90

POL-BSFF-0223787_0089
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

12.3.9 Activation of remote-access technologies for vendors
only when needed by vendors, with immediate deactivation
after use

§[ REF _Ref199324570 \n
\h]

12.3.10 When accessing cardholder data remotely via remote
access technologies, prohibit copy, move, and storage of
cardholder data onto local hard drives and removable
electronic media.

§[ REF _Ref199321930 \n
\h]

124 Ensure that the security policy and procedures clearly define
information security responsibilities for all employees and
contractors.

§[ REF _Ref206230889 \n
\h ], S[ REF _Ref206230947

\n\h]

12.5 Assign to an individual or team the following information
security management responsibilities:
12.5.1 Establish, document, and distribute security policies
and procedures

§[ REF _Ref206231316 \n
\h]

12.5.2 Monitor and analyze security alerts and information,
and distribute to appropriate personnel

§[ REF _Ref206234536 \n
\h ({ REF _Ref206234595
\n\h], §[ REF
_Ref206234652 \n \h]

12.5.3 Establish, document, and distribute security incident
response and escalation procedures to ensure timely and
effective handling of all situations

§[ REF _Ref206234833 \r
\h]

12.5.4 Administer user accounts, including additions,
deletions, and modifications

§[ REF _Ref206234868 \r
\h]

12.5.5 Monitor and control all access to data

§[ REF _Ref199319275 \r

\h ], §[ REF _Ref204174088
\r \h], §[ REF
_Ref206235099 \r \h ]

12.6 Implement a formal security awareness program to make all
employees aware of the importance of cardholder data security:

§[ REF _Ref206235228 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref199224960
\r \h ]({ REF
_Ref206235460 \n \h]

12.6.1 Educate employees upon hire and at least annually

§[ REF _Ref206237655 \r
\h]

12.6.2 Require employees to acknowledge at least annually
that they have read and understood the company’s security
policy and procedures

§[ REF _Ref206237603 \r
\h]

12.7 Screen potential employees (see definition of “employee” at
9.2 above) prior to hire to minimize the risk of attacks from internal
sources.

For those employees such as store cashiers who only have access to one card
number at a time when facilitating a transaction, this requirement is a
recommendation only.

§[ REF _Ref206233738 \n
\h]

12.8 _ If cardholder data is shared with service providers, then
contractually the following is required:
12.8.1_ Maintain a list of service providers.

Version 4.32.0
Page 91

§[ REF _Ref205721677 \r
\h]

POL-BSFF-0223787_0090
IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117
POL00397117

PCI DSS Requirements

Policy Ref.

12.8.2 Maintain a written agreement that includes an
acknowledgement that the service providers are responsible
for the security of cardholder data the service providers
possess.

12.8.3 Ensure there is an established process for engaging
service providers including proper due diligence prior to
engagement.

12.8.4 Maintain a program to monitor service providers’ PCI
DSS compliance status.

12.9

Implement an incident response plan. Be prepared to

respond immediately to a system breach.

§[ REF _Ref206240599 \r
\h ], §[ REF _Ref206239687
\r\h](( REF
_Ref206234595 \n \h ],

12.9.1 Create the incident response plan to be implemented

in the event of system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the

following, at a minimum:

¢ Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact
strategies in the event of a compromise including
notification of the payment brands, at a minimum

¢ Specific incident response procedures

¢ Business recovery and continuity procedures

¢ Data back-up processes

e Analysis of legal requirements for reporting
compromises

¢ Coverage and responses of all critical system
components

e Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures
from the payment brands

§[ REF _Ref206240599 \r
\h], S[ REF _Ref204169468

\r\h]

12.9.2 Test the plan at least annually

§[ REF _Ref204169468 \r
\h] - control A14.1.5.

12.9.3 Designate specific personnel to be available on a
24/7 basis to respond to alerts

§[ REF _Ref206242031 \r
\h]

12.9.4 Provide appropriate training to staff with security
breach response responsibilities

§[ REF _Ref206242031 \r
\h]

12.9.5 Include alerts from intrusion detection, intrusion
prevention, and file integrity monitoring systems

§[ REF _Ref206242685 \r
\h]

12.9.6 Develop process to modify and evolve the incident
response plan according to lessons learned and to
incorporate industry developments

§[ REF _Ref206242326 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref204169468

\r\h]

Version 4.32.0
Page 92

POL-BSFF-0223787_0091

IT Directorate PSO Process
Community Information Security Policy for Horizon & Horizon Online

POL00397117

POL00397117

Appendix A: PCI DSS Applicability for Hosting Providers (with

Testing Procedures)

Requirement A.1: Hosting providers protect cardholder data environment

Requirements

Policy Ref.

A.1 Protect each entity’s (that is merchant, service provider, or
other entity) hosted environment and data, as in A.1.1 through
A.14:
A hosting provider must fulfil these requirements as well as all
other relevant sections of the PCI DSS.
Note: Even though a hosting provider may meet these requirements, the
compliance of the entity that uses the hosting provider is not guaranteed.
Each entity must comply with the PCI DSS and validate compliance as
applicable.
A.1.1_ Ensure that each entity only only runs processes that
have access to that entity’s cardholder data environment

§[ REF _Ref199225557 \n
\h ][ REF _Ref199242314
\n\h]

A.1.2 Restrict each entity’s access and privileges to own
cardholder data environment only

§[ REF _Ref199320474 \r
\h]

A.1.3_ Ensure logging and audit trails are enabled and
unique to each entity’s cardholder data environment and
consistent with PCI DSS Requirement 10

§[ REF _Ref204174088 \r
\h], §[ REF _Ref205722017
\r\h]

A.14 Enable processes to provide for timely forensic
investigation in the event of a compromise to any hosted
merchant or service provider.

§[ REF _Ref206243721 \n
\h]

-- End of Policy ---

Version 4.32.0
Page 93

POL-BSFF-022:

'3787_0092
