POL00069527
POL00069527

Stephen Dilley

From: carol.king!

Sent: 29 September 2006 14:52
To: Stephen Dilley

Ce: wendy.n.smith@
Subject: Re: Various issués = P.O
Stephen

Wendy Smth has volunteered to do your statement for Ap Cheers Carol

Carol King

Branch Control and Conformance Manager
Post Office Ltd

Finance

First Floor West, 1 Future Walk, West Bars, CHESTERFIELD, S49 1PF

} Fax: None External Email:

Postline:

To:
<carol.king&
ce: <andy.r.pea
26/09/2006 18:35 H
Subject: Various issues - P.O -v- Castleton

"Tom Beezer'

Dear Mandy and Carol,

1. Carol, further to my recent emails, 4 witnesses are about to sign (or have started to sign) statements, saying
there were only 15 error noticesin 2003 to 2004 whereas in fact there are 17. I need to quickly correct these
statements before exchange. I therefore need to be 100% certain that amended excel spreadsheet I sent you is
correct (apart from the 2 error notices I recently mentioned) before we exchange statements.

Are there any other error notices in existence during Castleton's tenure other than those we now know about?

2. Carol, further to my 14 September email, have you identified someone else in APS who is willing to talk about
the procedure of what happens when a customer goes to pay by APS? If so, I can telephone them to take
a statement.

3. Carol and Mandy, the attached Former Subpostmasters Accounts Statement of Outstanding Debt as at 11
February 2005 shows that the outstanding indebtedness (excluding interest) is £25,858.95. (This is slightly more
than the losses showing on the audit report because 2 error notices only came to light after the audit). I need
someone from the P.O to give evidence to say "there are £25,858.95 of losses" So far, people seem remarkably
coy about saying that. The auditor (Helen Rose) says that it would be inappropriate for her to say that. The
RLM (Cath Oglesby) is not familiar with the attached document. Is there anyone in the Former Subpostmasters
Department in Chesterfield who could give this sort of evidence? In former subpostmaster cases, who usually is
the person to say "these are our losses". I am happy to draft a statement, I just need someone to speak to who
is willing to give this evidence.

4. Mandy, in response to you 15 September email, Mr Castleton's solicitors have not said when their expert's
report for week 42 will become available and they have not yet formally agreed to disclose week 42 to us.
However, I anticipate they will give this to us when they've got it and reviewed it, unless it's really unhelpful to
them.

5. Mandy, in response to your 18 September email, there is a whole set of instructions to spmrs about what to do
if they discover an error after cut off and how to reverse it, depending on the circumstances. For
example "Balancing with Horizon" Section 4: Errors found when checking reports after "cut off" states:
POL00069527
POL00069527

* the cut off button has been selected prior to checking the report against the actual dockets/supporting
uocumentation and an error is found, the correction can still be made using the reversal facility... The first report
must be manually altered so that the correct entries for volume and value are shown. Any manual alterations
must be initialled."

I look forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.

Kind regards.

Stephen Dilley
Solicitor

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally privileged and protected
by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the
intended recipient, please notify the sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use,
dissemination, distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection software before transmission.
You should carry out your own virus checks before opening any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability
for any loss or damage which may be caused by software viruses.

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number OC311430.
Registered Office: 3 Temple Quay, Temple Back East, Bristol, BS1 6DZ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in relation to Bond Pearce LLP
means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP.

Bond Pearce LLP is regulated by the Law Society.

>>>> eCopy scanned document.pdf attachment was removed from this email
>>>> <<<<

JOSE SHOR ISI IEEE EERIE OI SDI IORI OSI IBIAS IKI OIDISI IOI AAR A AEA AKA
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.
JO SEISI OSORIO SIE OR OSS OR IS SRIOE IORI CR IACI AGII CI IGIARAIIAK AGRA AAR AGK A
