POL00106848
POL00106848

@

Case

Closure Reporting

Case Closure report must be emailed to Primary Stakeholder and copied to all Secondary Stakeholders & Jacqueline Whitham, on

final completion/submission of case.

Case reference: POLTD/1011/0160
Date case set up; 22/12/2010

Branch Name: (or other Location)I®arkham RG44 4SY_
Branch Code: [212 939

Main Enquiry Category: Disputed Transactions
Enquiry Type: (Cash Loss

Name of Person(s)
Interviewed: (if applicable)

[Pamela Stubbs (not under caution interview)

Loss: £

Subject type / Grade: (Delete asIPostmistress (EX)
lapplicable):

Case File associated: Not with this email
Primary Stakeholder: As above
Secondary Stakeholder(s):__IAs above
Identified ‘Criminal’ 0

Loss is £40k

INB: Only losses attributable to fraud and/or where the loss is the result of suspect fraudulent activity, should he recorded. For
lexample if the case Is an audit shortage of £50k, but £10k Is known to be outstanding/other TCs, then the Identified ‘Criminat

Potential Recovery: (method &
dates) £

I ie any known / instigated activity un

NB: Potential recoveries include known TCs to be issued, arrangements being made for instalments, ongoing sale of property, ete

idertaken to pursue recovery. which is in the pipeline.

IActual Recovery: {method &
dates) £

INB: Actual recoveries include known

cash repaid. known cheques repaid, either via funding notification, direct to Late Account,

fete - ie any known recovery that has been been physically received. as opposed to being in the pipeline.

Investigation still ongoing?: (ir
Ives, this form must be emailed to
jrelevant Financial investigator as
{case will remain open within their
{remnit)

Confiscation case: No

ISPSO cases: has SPMR been IYes
made aware of loss?:

is there a Financial N/A

Final outcome: (if prosecution
include further details below)

INo criminal activity identified

Prosecution Outcome: (include
court. date & sentence)

NA

Costs / Compensatior
(Compensation awarded in multiple
[partner cases / SPSO assistant casesI
Imust be repaid to loser ~ contact
IPBA Banking Duty 5309 2381 /
[01246 542 381 to ensure

30

POL00106848
POL00106848

compensation cheques dealt with
icorrectly).

Debarment: (Confirm completed
Jand date forwarded to intelligence
[Transaction Manager)

[To be decided on by retall line

Procedural and organizational}
failings identified - (ensure
PROCEDURAL FAILINGS form is also
lupdated & emailed to Stakeholders)

Procedural and organizational
failings discussion held with
Stakeholder(s); (discussion must
loccur prior to closure - outline any
Isolutions, agreed actions, refer to
inext level if issues remain e.g Crown
IOffice failings via BM/Operations
Manager).

Are there outstanding issues
of a significant nature: (eg
impact, reluctance, refusal to
implement solutions, business
critical, etc ~ if yes, the matter should}
Ibe reported in more detail to Tear
Leader)

IThis case was raised following an ongoing dispute between Mrs Stubbs and Post Office Ltd
jregarding an outstanding debt of £28829.05. Mrs Stubbs Is suggesting that HORIZON is at
fault when it was moved into a Portakabin during renovations.

Along with Graham Brander I met with Mrs Stubbs on 17"
January and she was convinced that HORIZON was at fault. She
lhas retained daily transaction logs for December — January in
hich time she lost £9000 and is not prepared to release this
juntil she can compare it to Fujitsu data. I have examined the
IFujitsu data and cannot see any indications of fraud. She has
ideclared all the losses and has been asking for assistance for
lsome time. There is a possibility (although she will not accept
lit) that an assistant has been taking the money but that puts the
jonus back on her to report it to the police. I have sent her the
Fujitsu data to reconcile with her daily transaction logs but fromI
la criminal / fraud point of view there is no scope for further
linvestigation into any criminal activity.

Any other comments: (NB: IF
DWP case then additional closure
form is required to be completed)

Security Advisor in case:

Mike Wilcox

Security Programme
Manager (Team Leader):

Jason G Collins

Fraud Strand
Post Office Ltd, National Securit

ity Team

3

