POLO0097693
POL00097693

Message
From: Alison Bolsover
Sent:
To:
cc:

j

I; Andrew Winn

__}yCraig Tuthiil

Subject: RE: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Attachments: image001.png; image004.png; image005.png; image006.png; image007.png; image008.jpg; image003.jpg

ivan /Simon
thave had a discussion with Andy and I think we may want to consider if there is a need for someone from an iT
background to lead this SR. We would need to ensure they have knowledge of the design and operational requirements

with respect to power outage and what the branches are instructed to do in a recovery position.

Andy could lead on this but most of the input would be coming from elsewhere and maybe someone involved in the
Horizon and Horizon on line design within the business would in a better position to provide the factual information.

With respect to the comments about P&BA, Andy is in the best position to respond to how we handled this dispute.

Kind Regards Alison

Alison Bolsover I Debt Recovery Senior Manager

Post Office Ltd., Financial Service Centre, 1 Future Walk, Chesterfield $49 1PF

From: Ivan Swepson

Sent: 19 March 2013 14:44

To: Craig Tuthill; gareth jenkin: ;; Andrew Winn; Rod Ismay
Cc: Simon Baker; Alison Bolsover; Dave Posnett; Rodric Williams
Subject: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Sensitivity: Confidential

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege —- Not for Wider Circulation

Further to Simon’s email below:

POL-0097276
POLO0097693
POL00097693

1. Andy, will you take the lead again please on the draft response with input from Gareth (words and
flowchart) on Horizon operational design for power and comms failures. How long will you require for
first draft (given Easter coming up) so I can make a note on the Tracker?

2. Who is best placed to enable and facilitate the Horizon testing requested by Second Sight? I suggest
we need suitable access to a Horizon terminal but I also think we ought to ask for a test plan so we can
see the number and type of tests to be done to ensure a) the approach is robust (from a system testing
point of view) and b) the environment is correctly configured and support to enable the testing.

Thanks, Ivan

Ivan Swepson I IT Separation Programme Office, IT&C

LONDON EC1V 9HQ

From: Simon Baker

Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 1:05 PM

To: Craig Tuthill; Dave Posnett; gareth jenkins}
Ismay; Alison Bolsover

Subject: FW: Various items

Sensitivity: Confidential

I Ivan Swepson; Andrew Winn; Rod

All

Please find attached the next spot review. Also some comments below on what lan expects us to include in our
response.

Regards, Simon

From: Ian Henderson
Sent: 19 March 2013 12:14
To: Simon Baker

Cc: ‘Ron Warmington’; Susan Crichton
Subject: Various items

Sensitivity: Confidential

Simon
This is a general catch up on a number of issues:
1. Iattach Spot Review SRO01.docx which is the John Armstrong case we discussed on the last call
2. The main issue in SROO1 is the automated and largely silent recovery process which occurs when Horizon detects
either a power or a communications failure. Can you ask Fujitsu to provide us with a clear written description,

including flowcharts, of how this is designed to operate for both old and new Horizon?

3. Tied in to the above, we would like to run some tests on a live Horizon terminal (possibly a training terminal)
when we execute various types of transaction and at the same time cut the power or the internet connection.

POL-0097276
POLO0097693
POL00097693

We will then observe and analyse the recovery process. It will be important that the terminal being used is a
close to a live system as is possible. I assume the training office terminal in your building will be the best place to
do this, however we will probably need to book this for a number of sessions. Will this be possible?

Many thanks. I look forward to seeing you on Thursday afternoon
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

UK Mobile

If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irht
delete the email and any attachments. .

POL-0097276
