POL00086712
POL00086712

Activity PO Local Closure Workaid Planned/
Unplanned
1 I Planning For PO Funded Contact Debt Recovery teai Planned/
Unplanned
ascertain if any outstanding debt is to be recovered on closure of
Contact Retail Cash Management on: ito confirm
CIT collection times if not known.
“She ‘cash will be returned to the operator u: ‘Horizon System uti
the Operator cash Out Icon
Ensure spare Closure Pack is carried to office Closure (P242 Final Cash Planned/Unplanned
Account, P344 Transfer Report, P301 Non disclosure statement) Best
practice, to always carry spare Closure Pack, and items listed in Appendix L,
with you.
Contact Supply Chain to ensure they have been advised of the
closure.(This is a double check as we have been experiencing problems
through Supply Chain not being notified of a closure)
Contacts
Rebecca L Portch Landline:
Email: Cash Management Support Mail In
2 I Planning Contact the branch at least 5 working days prior to closure and confirm Planned

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:!.

Page 1

Simon Talbot Tel:

POL00086712
POL00086712

receipt of closure letter.

Discuss the Pre Closure Activities list (attached to closure letter sent to
branch) to ensure the branch is preparing for closure. Post Closure
Activities list can be found in Appendix D Closure Letter.

Ensure the branch has some one-trip rem pouches and other items as listed
in Appendix L.

If there are any unresolved items e.g. Cash In Pouches or Remittance
discrepancies (cash) please contact the appropriate team below to confirm
they are proper to be held & if so to arrange a Transactional Correction to

Clive Burton (PL)

3 I Planning

Agree audit attendance time with the outgoing Operator considering:

1. For PO Local self funded If BDC and stock is to be returned
using Shared Service confirm the collection time so audit
attendance can be aligned. Please refer to appendix I for
instructions on how to return by Shared Service.

2. Ask the outgoing Operator to confirm with the Postman that a
collection is planned from the branch on the day of our visit or
following day depending on our attendance time.

Planned

4 I Onsite

On arrival, ask the Operator for the Pre Closure Activity list and the closure
pack.
Confirm what activities have taken place in preparation for closure.

Planned

5 I Logging On To Horizon

Ask the Operator/Manager to add you to Horizon On Line with Manager
access.

If there is a problem in arranging for you to be logged on use your Global
User Account sign on to Horizon — unplanned closures only

Planned/
Unplanned

6 I Rem Verification

;Contact Network Support Admin Team on either postline:_ jor STD
i fo confirm the inward and outward rems and Outstanding

Planned

7 I Asset Verification

Ensure that cash and stock is recorded correctly on Horizon.

Cash and stock to be checked against the Office snapshot/Trial Balance.
Discrepancies to be resolved prior to remitting out all cash and stock or
returning cash to the Operator

Planned/
Unplanned

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Te!

Page 2

Simon Talbot Tel:

POL00086712
POL00086712

Postage labels

Print postage labels for final Archiving Boxes (If not already printed by
Operator) Use RM Standard Parcel and claim amount as official postage.
Any official postage used please email peter.b jacksonf
using the Record of Official Postage in Appendix L

Planned

Royal Mail & Parcelforce
items

Any mail items awaiting collection by customers need to be returned to the
appropriate depot. For PFWW Convenient Delivery items use the RDM
contact list in Appendix E. For Royal Mail Local Collect items contact
NBSC (option 2, option 3) and ask for the contact number of the appropriate
Royal Mail Delivery Office.

Horizon process in Appendix E

Ensure that the Mails Closure Notice (Appendix E) is completed and
displayed in a prominent position for customers to see.

Unplanned

10

Pay station

Upon closure of a branch to the public, the Paystation must be removed
from service at the same time that the branch closes irrespective of whether
or not the retail side remains open.

The Paystation must remain plugged-in to facilitate the download of data.
You will need to ensure that there are no outstanding barcode summaries
by undertaking the following process
At time of closure, you must check the Horizon TA records to assess the
last TA’s received in branch
Report for Outstanding & Processed TA’s is available via Office Daily
Reports.

To ensure you account for any transactions taken after the final TA. Print off
from the PayStation terminal an unseen Batch Control Summary report
using the following path ADMIN, Enter, Reports Menu, Enter, unseen batch
Control summary report enters YES. The terminal will produce a report
detailing all outstanding batch control summaries. These must be reprinted
using the following path Admin, Enter, Print BCS, enter. At this point,
enter the batch ID number from the unseen BCS report. The BCS will then
print out and this must be kept for association with TA that will appear the
following day.

. Check the Receipt Number of the Batch Control Summary (BCS) follows
the last number recorded on the Outstanding & Processed TA report

e This will tell you how much cash to secure from the retail side of the

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:!

Page 3

GRO I Simon Talbot Tel:i

Unplanned

Planned

Unplanned

POL00086712
POL00086712

e branch and place this in the PO account. ( Any cash discrepancy will
be accounted as a final account surplus as per normal practise
against the outgoing sub-postmaster) Enter this amount into
Housekeeping’, and under the heading ‘emergency transactions’,
‘receipts (23).

The amount identified as outstanding from the terminal print offs will be
entered into the emergency suspense account for this to be accounted for
in Horizon.

Ensure you e-mail P&BA on the day of the transfer

dawn.wall Jor
contact them 61 They will need to know the amount
that has been entered into emergency suspense, and where known the re-
opening date for the branch.

Overnight this data will populate the relevant POLSAP accounts, and a TA
will be created awaiting the branch re-opening.

When the branch re-opens either you or the branch must accept the TA’s.
(If the branch never re-opens or does not re-open within 40 days an
alternative process will need to be followed by P&BA)

This will cause a cash discrepancy, which will relate to the outstanding
balance in Horizon which would equate to the amount in transfer suspense.
Either you or the branch must redeem this figure from the emergency
suspense this will ensure both Horizon and POLSAP balance.

If there were any difficulties encountered during this process or the
discrepancy between the figures in suspense occur please contact Finance

(Paul Lebeter xi GRO. jor

For business as usual closures, follow the process detailed above for
unplanned closures.. The pay station terminal can then be disconnected
from the power supply and telephone line the terminal is packed up ready
for collection and that the Postmaster is aware of the collection. Ona
planned closure it should have been organised for INGENICO to carry this
out. The Postmaster should have received a phone call from INGENICO
confirming the collection details. If the Postmaster. irm this the
Auditor must contact PROPERTY PROJECTS o1

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:!
Page 4

I Simon Talbot Tel:

GRO
POL00086712
POL00086712

Paystation, Post & Go &
National Lottery

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:
Page 5

collection of terminal. DHL will come to collect the Paystation, so ensure it
is parceled up ready for collection, The Postmaster should be instructed to
contact the NBSC if the terminal is not collected on the due date

At unplanned closures and the branch is to be defunded the terminal must
be packed up and returned by Special Delivery to Ingenico UK, Lock 13,
Ridge Way Donibristle Ind Pk, Dalgety Bay, Fife, KY11 9JU . Email
baljit.a.singlY {within 24 hours, with branch details and the
Special Delivery number. Keep the S/D receipt with branch paperwork.

If the branch is to be re-opened then disconnect the terminal and place in
the safe. If it is impractical to have the PayStation in the safe then look to
see if it can be locked away securely elsewhere such as a coin cabinet and
establish that you have all the keys. If this is not feasible then a secure site
such as a local Crown Branch or CTO. If required contact your Line
Manager.

If you locate other red or old grey PayStation on-site, return to Ingenico at
the above address, informing Baljit Singh as before.

If the PayStation is not on site contact Baljit A Singh on}
e Where a branch has Paystation, Post & Go & National Lottery follow
the EASE process
¢ This will tell the auditor how much cash to secure from the retail side
of the branch and place this in the PO account. (Any cash
discrepancy will be accounted as a final account deficit as per normal
practice against the outgoing sub-postmaster
e The amount identified as outstanding from the terminal print offs will
be entered into the emergency suspense account for this to be
accounted for i in Horizon.
e Auditor to e- mi
louise.s.wilki
amount that h
known the re-opening date for the branch.
e Overnight this data will populate the relevant POLSAP accounts,
and a TA will be created awaiting the branch re-opening.
When the branch re-opens / transfer completed the branch would accept

Simon Talbot Tel: GRO

POL00086712
POL00086712

the TA’s. (If the branch never re-opens or does not re-open within 40 days
an alternative process will need to be followed by P&BA)

11 I TC’s and Debt recovery Bring any outstanding Transactional Corrections to account and discuss Planned/

how the agent will make good any losses. Credit/Debit card payments can I Unplanned
_idebit/credit card payments can be offered if
before 5pm Monday to Friday.

12 I Rems to BDC BDC currency should be returned using horizon print out and in purple Planned/
pouch marked Currency. Please refer to appendix E for instructions on how I Unplanned
to return by Shared Service

13 I Cash Rems PO Funded Branches. Rem out all the notes on hand and seal in grey Planned/
pouches enclosing the Horizon print out ensuring that you keep to the Unplanned
pouch limits for the branch. P6097 and scan prior to sealing. (If ACC is
disabled and the grey pouch bar-code cannot be used affix a coin bar code
label to the grey pouch and use this). Coin bags should be remitted out and
bar code label P6097 affixed to the back of the coin return advice. Planned/
For PO Local Self Funded Branches, the cash is to be returned to the Unplanned
Operator and reported on the Horizon System utilising the Operator cash
Out Icon.

14 I Stock Rems to ADC. Rem out all stock on hand and seal in Green Stock pouches enclosing the Planned
Horizon receipt. Unplanned

All Instant Lottery tickets
Activated

Instant Lottery Tickets

Unactivated Instant Lottery
Tickets

Winning Tickets

For temporary closures and relocations please see Appendix H.

(for National Lottery, Postal Orders and POCA please see below)

PLEASE NOTE MVL DISC’S ARE REMMED OUT ON HORIZON BUT
DESTROYED LOCALLY.

Check all Scratchcards against the Lottery Matrix to verify the Scratchcards
that are current. The Lottery Matrix is found EASE — Audits — Audit Process
Manual — Chapter 3 Performing A Branch Audit. — Scroll down on this page
to Lottery Guides. All out of date Scratchcards are the responsibility of the
Sub-Postmaster.

All activated Instant Lottery tickets are to be remmed out and returned with
the activation slips in Green Stock Pouches. If activation slips are not on
hand contact the Helpline to confirm that all activated cards on hand are
within the final return date. Any obsolete tickets are not to be returned and

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel,

Page 6

Simon Talbot Tel:} GRO

POL00086712
POL00086712

NL Cheque Books

Postal Orders

POCA

the shortage is to be made good.
Unactivated Packs are to be verified by confirming they agree with the
Unactivated Pack Summary and Individual Pack Status reports obtained
from the Camelot Terminal. The Pack numbers are then to be recorded on
the National Lottery Return Ticket Form, (WH 1), and returned by special
delivery to Kim Kelly, Returns Department, Camelot PLC, The Kestrel
Centre Unit, 44 Salthouse Road, Brackmills Trading Estate, Northampton,
NN4 7EX. Please refer to appendix E for instructions on how to return by
Shared Servic lease email Jane Adcock

I with the guaranteed delivery tracking

ju!
Winning tickets and scratchcards and the validation tickets are to be
archived and despatched to Iron Mountain

VOID all NL cheques by striking through each one using a black marker pen
then return them to the Secure Stock Centre for destroying.

On HOL scan the cheques barcode and select to Spoil Cheque.

Complete 2 copies of the Destruction Certificate

One to go with cheques to Secure Stock Centre

One to be archived with other paperwork and sent to Iron Mountain..

Rem out all sealed packs of 250 x Postal Orders. All open packs of Postal
Orders must be destroyed. Adjust stock accordingly. Complete the
Destruction Certificate (Appendix C) and store with other documents being
despatched to Iron Mountain.

All POCA cards at the branch have to be destroyed.

Prior to destruction - Complete the Card Destruction Log P6187 and store
with other documents being despatched to Iron Mountain. (The form should
be held in the branch. Copy in Appendix M). Then enter onto Horizon -
Front Office, F3 Banking, 66 Card Management, 26 Report Withdrawn card,
Swipe card, Apply reason, Apply reason other: PO closure

15 I CIT same day Prepare collection before the CIT branch arrives. On arrival of CIT, Planned/
handover the pouches obtaining a signature for them on the collection Unplanned
receipt. Retain one of the collection slips and file with the closure
documentation. You can only complete a Final Trading Statement once the
CIT collection is complete

CIT next day Prepare collection and obtain 3 pouch collection slips. Keep the collection

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:!

Page 7

Planned/

Simon Talbot Tel:

POL00086712
POL00086712

receipt with the pouches ready for despatch the following day. To remove
the amounts from Suspense you will need to roll over the stock unit.

Unplanned

16 I Despatch of Rem pouches

If CIT are not attending ON the same day and the Operator will be
despatching the pouches, transfer the pouches to the outgoing Operator
using the reverse of one of the Pouch Collection receipts from Horizon.
Write this statement on the reverse of the receipt, I confirm receipt of the
pouches listed overleaf. I will secure the pouches in the safe and
despatch as agreed signed by the outgoing Operator and the FTM.
Bring the signed statement away with you and leave a self-addressed
envelope on hand so the Operator can send you the despatch note once
complete. PLEASE NOTE FOR UNPLANNED CLOSURES WE SHOULD
DEAL WITH THE DESPATCH DIRECTLY OR AGREE DESPATCH WITH
CONTRACTS & SERVICE TEAM.

Planned/
Unplanned

17 I Reconciliations

Complete all the reconciliation's and despatch the weekly pouches
Chesterfield and Girobank as per the Counter Operations manuals.

Planned/
Unplanned

18 I Final Account

Offices In The Network
Transformation Programme

Proceed to complete the Trading Statement and prepare P242 final trading
statement. Ensure that the outgoing Operator signs the P242, as well as
the NFSA. If there is an amount is suspense, note the reason for the
suspense item. Enclose in an envelope and post by Special Delivery to
Dawn Wall, Current Agents Accounting Team. No1 Future Walk,
Chesterfield, S49 1PF. Please note that for late account items over £1k, a
copy of the report should be sent to Dawn Wall.

If there is a final account deficiency/surplus on the day of the Audit that the
agent cannot make good make a call to Ann Bailey at Finance
Service Centre ( to advise of the amount of the
deficiency/surplus.

Planned/
Unplanned

Planned

19 I Advise Supply Chain

Advise Supply Chain initially by phone and followed by email confirmation
immediately it is made aware a branch is closed as a result of audit or any
other reason where the closure will be for more than 24 hours. This will
make sure cash, bureau or stock are not dispatched. Recovery of any items
dispatched as a result of no or late notification of closure will be the
Networks responsibility if it is found that Network was at fault. Any loses
incurred as a result will be investigated and a decision made on individual
case merits.

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:

Page 8

--GRO.

Unplanned/Temporary

I Simon Talbot Tel] GRO

GRO
POL00086712
POL00086712

Branch closure escalation c
Rebecca L Portch Landline:
Mobile: I
Andrew Keighley Landline:

Email: Cash Management Support Mail In

20 I Safe Keys

For temporary closure where no defund is to occur ensure all safe keys are
handed over. If only 1 key produced make enquiries as to the whereabouts
of the second key. If satisfied ensure appropriate steps are taken to have a
second key obtained ready for the re-opening. If not satisfied with response
contact the Contracts Advisor for instructions. If a Contract Advisor is not
available contact your team leader.

Do not forget to change the alarm codes. For further information:- EASE —
Training On-Site —- Security - SPSO Alarm 2000 User Guide or Contact
ROMEC service on ~. ~ for advice.

Temporary

21 I Datestamps

A manual copy of the RECORD OF DATESTAMPS DESPATCHED FOR
DESTRUCTION (Appendix J) to be completed and stored with other
documents being despatched to Iron Mountain.

Self Inking Datestamps. Complete the appropriate form in Appendix J.
Enclose this with the Self Inking Datestamp(s) and send by Special Delivery
to Andy Warmer. COLOP UK. Clifton House. 32 Lower Essex Street.
Birmingham. BS 6SN. Tel i

Send an electronic copy of the form to chris.c.edward

The parcel datestamp should be destroyed locally by removing the rubber
and cut in 4.
Travel insurance policy pads should be destroyed locally.

Date stamps should be secured in the locked safe and arrangements made
with the Network Support Contracts Admin Team in Leeds for the storage of
the keys.

Note: Only where the FTM has concerns regarding the security of the safe,
or where no safe exists, then the datestamp head or self inking datestamp
should be returned, with any branch keys and alarms codes, to the Network

Planned

Unplanned/
Temporary/
Planned

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Tel:!
Page 9

POL00086712
POL00086712

Support Contracts Admin Team in Leeds.

22 I Investigation support Procedure to be followed on closures following suspensions. Contact Unplanned
should be made with the investigators to confirm what/if any accounting
documents they require. These should be taken off site if requested by the
investigators.

23 I MI notification For closures where pouches left with Operator contact the relevant Admin Planned/
Team (see number 5) whilst ON SITE to confirm the following: Branch Unplanned

name, FAD code, Type of closure - Suspension/BAU, deficiency/surplus in
final account, date of closure, Pouch numbers and contents i.e. cash or
stock and amount of cash enclosed in pouch, Cash Centre and Coin Centre
that deal, Permanent or Temporary closure, rem pouches despatched or not
and date of collection?

24 I National Lottery branches

Contact Camelot retailer hotline on! _jand select option 3.
Inform them that the branch is closed and no further transactions are to take
iler number. Email_

with the details of the office and the type of
closure. If lottery Ie ed then a new retailer number will be
issued. Verify unactivated scratchcards to print out from lottery terminal.
Unactivated packs to be returned to Camelot by Special Delivery and
postage claimed on Official Postage. The address is at the bottom of this
page in “What goes where and how?”

A WH1 form should be completed (4 copies). This should have been sent
to the branch by Camelot. A copy of this is in Appendix M. (Suggest you
print 4 copies before attending closure.)

Unplanned/Planned

25 I Retention of documentation

File paperwork locally for 60 days. If there were issues on closure or if
there was a suspension please retain the paperwork in accordance with the
Retention of paperwork policy.

Planned/
Unplanned

26 I Post Audit activities

Save and password protect the P32 in the correct format e.g. SUSPENSION
023323 010105.xls and email to P32 file generic email address.

Unplanned due to
suspension.

What goes where and how?

Old accounting records via RM Standard Parcel - Royal Mail Account, Iron Mountain Records Management, Norman Road, Pickardy Manor

Way, Belvedere, KENT DA17 6JY

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Te!
Page 10

Simon Talbot Tel‘

POL00086712
POL00086712

Metal Datestamp via Special delivery - Mrs Sarah Howard. Post Office Ltd. Network Admin Support. 2nd Floor. The Markets PO. 6/16

New York Street. LEEDS. LS2 7DZ
Self inking datestamp via Special delivery - Andy Warmer. COLOP UK. Clifton House. 32 Lower Essex Street. Birmingham. B5 6SN. Tel:

“Unactivatéd Tistants via Special delivery — Kim Kelly, Returns Department, Camelot PLC, The Kestrel Centre Unit, 44 Salthouse Road,
Brackmills Trading Estate, Northampton, NN4 7EX

} Simon Talbot Tel:{

Version 3.0 May 2013 Pete Jackson Te!
Page 11
