POL00423241

POL00423241

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

Post Office Ltd - Security Process

GRAPEVINE INTERNAL FRAUD REPORTING PROCESS

Document Information

Title Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process

Category Process document

Subject Security

Version Version 2.0

Control

Author Wayne Griffiths

Owner Head of Security, Post Office Ltd

Enquiries Wayne Griffiths
Security Programme Manager
Mobile Mobex [”

Purpose To define the process on the handling
internal fraud/security breaches through to
Grapevine

Audience Post Office Ltd Security Team, Post Office
Ltd Management, Grapevine call handlers, key
identified internal stakeholders.

Keywords Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting

Privacy Post Office Ltd Management

level

Document Chevin Light 12

format

Document Electronic (MS Word. Document), Paper,

type

Review date

Annual

Expiry date

Ongoing subject to review

APPROVAL
Role Name(s) Date
Business Security - Commercial Strand June
input 2011
Assurance John Scott, Head of Security Post
Office Ltd

Authorised Head of Security, PO Ltd
Version control

Version No. Reason for issue Date

Version New Process (separation of process Sept
1.0 from Policy) 2011

Version Amendments to embedded process map Oct 2011
2.0

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"

]

POL-BSFF-0238056
Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

Introduction

The Grapevine intelligence service will extend its
product portfolio to include handling and progressing
incoming calls based upon internal fraud or breaches of
security procedure at Post Office Ltd (POL) locations,
primarily in relation to Network and Supply Chain sites.

Whilst it will not necessarily be possible to
substantiate individual claims made, these calls will act
as a trigger mechanism for the Crime Risk Strand to
commence further analysis of that site, which may
indicate a more serious problem. Potential fraud issues
may then require intervention activity, whilst security
breaches may require a visit by a Security Manager. It is
of paramount importance that the callers identity remains
anonymous, and the reason given for any such visits or
calls should be purely ad hoc, rather than as a result of
specific information received.

The Public Interest Disclosure Act (PIDA) of 1998 states
that the disclosing of confidential information such as
illegal activity or environmental breaches should not
result in reprisals, recriminations or retribution
against the information provider. Even though the
Internal Fraud Reporting Service isn’t an official
Business ‘Whistleblowing’ facility, calls received should
be handled confidentially and professionally to ensure
there is no negative come back on the information
provider.

Under normal circumstances, the observer of fraud or
security breaches should report them through their line
management structure, however, they may feel unable to do
this for fear of reprisal or recrimination. It is for
this reason that the Grapevine Internal fraud Service is
being introduced.

Policy/Process documents

This process document maps out in detail how incoming
calls should be handled by the Grapevine service
provider, It also goes on to explain how calls should be

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"
]

POL00423241
POL00423241

POL-BSFF-0238056_0001
Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

escalated back into the POL Security Team for further
investigation.

This document also makes reference to the process
involved in dealing with calls received which may be more
appropriate or applicable to other Helpline service
providers within the Royal Mail Group.

The process should be read in conjunction with the
Grapevine Internal Fraud Policy document which explains
the rationale behind the service provision. The policy
document is embedded below for reference.

C:\Documents and
Settings\wayne. griffi

Initial Call Handling

Incoming calls will be made to the generic Grapevine
helpline number ¢€ It is imperative that
the call is handled discreetly and professionally as the
caller may be under stress, and unsure they are pursuing
the correct route.

The operator should be at pains to make the caller feel
as comfortable as possible, and should be reassuring them
that they have made the correct decision in making the
call.

It is anticipated that calls received will fall into 2
main categories, these are:-

e To report colleague malpractice. That is to say for
example, that Clerk A observes Clerk B taking cash
from a Post Office till, but feels uncomfortable in
reporting it through the line management process.

e Repeated security breaches within the workplace. For
example, a safe being continually left ajar,
especially if in public view. Again, the caller
feels unable to report through normal line
management channels.

The call handler should record as much information as
possible on the form embedded below. They should also be
aware that the caller should be allowed to talk, and

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"
]

POL00423241
POL00423241

POL-BSFF-0238056_0002
Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

divulge as much information as possible, as they may not
have further opportunities, or the inclination, to do so.

C:\Documents and
Settings\wayne. griffit

Dealing with Calls not appropriate to Internal Fraud

It is entirely feasible that calls will be received on
this helpline that are of a different subject or nature
to the intended usage. Under these circumstances, the
call details should still be taken, with the proviso that
the caller should be informed that the information will
be passed on to the appropriate helpline or service.

It may be prudent at the outset of such a call to advise
the caller that they may wish to call the appropriate
service themselves (relevant number below should be
provided), which would allow them to engage with a more
suitable and knowledgeable call handler. However, if the
caller declines this offer, comprehensive details must be
taken and passed onto the most appropriate service.

It is anticipated that calls through to the Grapevine
Helpline in error would fall under the categories stated
below, along with the correct recipient service provider
details.

e Bullying & Harassment Helpline € GRO.
only give advice, incident reporting “should be made
through the HR service.

e HR Help ([ HYPERLINK

Bo! Or reporting
. Corporate & Social Responsibility Helpdesk (L

HYPERLINK RO ‘GRO ry
or reporting issues with an environmental
impact.
. Corporate Security Helpde:

GRO }
for reporting “any RM security issues

Up Line ([ HYPERLINK

B) for reporting any other RM Yelated calls

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"

]

POL00423241
POL00423241

POL-BSFF-0238056_0003
Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

Calls therefore received and documented which are more
appropriate to one of the services listed above should be
re-routed as applicable.

The embedded document below maps and demonstrates this
process.

C:\Documents and
Settings\wayne. griffit

Information Escalation Process

When a call is received that is pertinent to this
service, an information capture sheet must be completed
in as comprehensive a manner as possible. The caller may
or may not volunteer their name, however, whilst they
must be informed that the content of the call will be
investigated, they should also be advised that there will
be no direct feedback given on findings.

It should be noted that any call subsequently found to be
of a malicious nature, the disciplinary code may be
invoked against the perpetrator of the call if their
identity is known.

Once all relevant information has been gathered, the form
should be e mailed to [ HYPERLINK .

"mailto: PostOfficeSecurity} * ) with
‘Internal Fraud Reporting’ displayed as the text in the
subject box.

Security Internal Escalation Process

Once received by the POL Crime Risk Admin Team, this
should be escalated to a Manager within the Strand. The
information received within the e mail, if in relation to
suspected fraudulent activity (that is to say impacting
on products or cash as a result of internal fraudulent
actions), should act as a trigger for further analytical
work to be undertaken by a Crime Risk Analyst to profile
the office in question. It may be that this will throw up
potential irregularities that may need some intervention
activity. Under these circumstances, liaison should be
undertaken with the most relevant partner/stakeholder
(Audit Team, or Operations Strand possibly), to appraise
them of the situation, the findings, and to agree on
further actions. It must be stressed however, that the

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"
]

POL00423241
POL00423241

POL-BSFF-0238056_0004
POL00423241
POL00423241

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process. Version 2.0 06/10/2011

original complaint is not necessarily being investigated,
it is this information which is used as a trigger to
undertake further analysis of the office in question.

Likewise, if the initial call relates to physical
security breaches at a location (safe or access door left
open for example), the information should be shared with
the Operations Strand by e mailing the relevant Team
Leader, and a ‘Torch’ type visit by a Security Manager
may be the most appropriate method of follow up.

As stated earlier, any intervention activity undertaken
as a result of the original information should be under
the guise of business as usual. That is to say, part of
security activity within the general area. Under no
circumstances should it be divulged that the visit is as
a direct consequence of information received from an
internal source.

Although this service isn’t a bona fide ‘Whistleblower’
line, callers are still covered by the ‘Public Interest
Disclosure Act 1998’ (PIDA). Therefore there can be no
reprisals or recriminations against the person making the
allegation (unless malicious). Anonymity is a key driver,
and it is worth repeating that any resulting security
activity must be dressed up under the ‘business as usual’
banner, and not reported as being as a result of specific
information received (by an employee).

Any genuine calls that are received but, after analysis,
do not lead to more substantial concerns, should be filed
securely by the Casework Team in case any action is
required at that location in the future.

The embedded document below maps this process.

C:\Documents and
Settings\wayne. grifit

Grapevine Internal Fraud Reporting Process — Version 2.0 [ DATE \@ "dd/MM/yyyy"
]

POL-BSFF-0238056_0005
