Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

SETUP
INSTRUCTIONS
FOR HORIZON:

Ready the
Horizon kit

Learners will be doing all the work on the HOL terminal under your
instruction.

Ask them to Switch the HOL terminal ON.

Leaners will need to touch the screen or the enter button to be able to access
the logon screen.

Ask the learners to use the generic name and password below, to log on to
their terminal.

User name:
Password:

They are now ready to set up a new user and the “live” stock, ready to use on
Day 3.

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

Adding a User

The learners to add themselves as user in their name using the correct HOL
user format (first letter of their first name and first 2 letters of their surname
followed by 3 numbers - e.g. Tom Jones: TJO001).

With all learners logged on as TMM567 on the “Front Office” screen: ask the
learners to go to:

e Back Office [F14]

e¢ Admin [F3]

e Create User (41)

« Enter their name as stated above (they will all be different)

The system asks the user to input a password - twice.

Tell the learners to use the generic password

When they log on for the first time as a new user, the system will ask them to
change their password and at that point they can use any password they like,
so long as it is at least 7 characters long and less than 14 characters; and
contains at least 1 letter and 1 number.

Learners will need to enter their full name and confirm what level of system
access they need this new user to have for the level listed below:

« Clerk - lowest level of access - full in serve customer but basic back
office access only.

« Supervisor - can do most things but can’t create new users or stocks.

« Manager - full access to everything.

In this case all the learners will choose “MANAGER” level.

The learners will be asked if they wish to attach the new user to a “stock unit”;
the learners should decline being attached to a stock unit at this point.

Tell the learners that this will place them in the DEF unit (the Default unit)
which allows them to access only the Back Office, Admin screens.

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

CREATING
STOCK UNITS
FOR LEARNERS
TO USE
DURING THE
COURSE:

Creating a
Stock Unit

Now learners will create a new ‘live’ stock unit.

This should be names the same on each terminal to keep the instructions
simple for the learners.

The stock will be names “SP2” and it is to be a “Shared” stock unit.

Users are already attached to the login off TMM567 / TMA1234.

It may be necessary to reset the systems using your Global User access
but only do this if necessary as the terminal might already be set up
for a “Day 1 & 2” course.

No physical cash/coins or stock will be used during Day 3 and the
figures in the stock unit we are creating are designed as a complex
jigsaw balance exercise.

You will be supply the figures to the learners

Stamps are rem’d in by denomination.

Cash can go in as one figure.

Use the laminated remittance barcodes from instructor’s desk/cupboard
when Horizon asks you to scan the pouch. If there are none in the CTO
then telephone Sandra McBride for replacements.

If you have time when you arrive at the CTO, log on to ‘BB’ at each
position to get rid the cash declaration request that usually comes up.
This will save time and explanations, but it is not vital - be ready to talk
learners past this quickly, should it occur.

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

Login under
their user
name.

Ask the learners to “log out” [F13].

Now ask them to login using the user account they have just set up.
You may need to talk them though the login process as they need as much
practice as possible.

* Touch the HOL screen

e Touch ENTER to continue

e Enter the USER NAME- then ENTER

e Type the generic PASSWORD (FRED123) - then ENTER

HOL will request that a new password is entered (TWICE) and then it will open
on the Front Office.

Leaners will need to be guided on how to attach to the stock they have just
created (SP2) so continue...

Once all learners have successfully logged in, guide them through attaching to
a stock unit:
¢ Back Office [F14]
Admin [F2]
Attach User (23) - top line in the grey
Highlight their user name - then ENTER
Highlight the stock they wish to attach to (SP2) - then ENTER
ENTER to confirm

Explain that the stock they are attached to is displayed at the foot of the
screen.

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

Information
around
Stock & Cash
Delivery
(Rem In)

Explain to the learners how stock would arrive at their branch:

e By CiTV on their standard Inward Rem delivery
e By Royal Mail Special Delivery Guaranteed

When a “cash/ currency remittance” (cash rem) arrives at your branch, the
barcode will be scanned in to HOL and at the end of the process, the system
will “auto complete” with the correct values to the stock you are attached to.

When we accept cash today, we will be manually completing this as we are
using training-kit and generic barcodes.

For stock, this is the same on training as it is in branch: you will scan the
barcode in when it is delivered, but you will need to manually enter on HOL the
items that have been delivered to you.

Detailed “Rem” instructions are available on the subspaceonline- Training
Support Documents under Handouts - and the title of the document is
“Accounting — Remittance Handout”.

Trainer to guide the learners through remitting in the cash and stock.

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

POL00035624
POL00035624

Rem In- cash

Note to Trainer —

We can’t rem in Travellers Cheques and Currency.

Travellers Cheques are not part of this balance.

Currency will be “bought” in from a customer as part of the explanation of
managing currency and cash has been added to our remittance to cover this.

Hand the learners
To rem in we go to:
e Back Office [F14]
e¢ Rems & Transfers [F5]
e Delivery (21)
e Scan a CASH barcode (notes and coin should be entered as a bulk figure
here e.g. 3561.96)
A message will pop-up saying manual fallback is necessary - press ENTER
THE LEARNERS will be asked to enter the cash value twice.
They will then press ENTER
HOL will ask for a second Barcode - learners just press ENTER again.
Learners need to PRINT the Delivery Receipt - PRINT(42).
ENTER to continue (this prints the second copy).
LEARNERS now press ENTER - this will print the auto-settled receipt to confirm
the value has been accepted by HOL.

Rem In - Stock

To accept stock to a branch the individual pieces of stock will be entered
manually once they have been checked.

In the classroom setting, this is identical to the branch other than the scanning
of the “pouch barcode” during the delivery stage.

Talk the learners through the path to the stock rem screen:
e Back Office [F14]
e In from ADC [F2] (ADC stands for Automated Distribution Centre)

At this point, remind the learners that the “quantity button” needs to be used
to stop errors in volumes.

If you “rem in” 1 book of 1% class x 12 stamps instead of 50, you will have a
gain that will result in a future Transaction Correction and this mistake could
mask losses that would have to be made good when the transaction correction
was received.

Jigsaw Balance
Figures: ONE -
Opening Stock
Values

POL00035624
POL00035624

Creating a stock on HOL at the beginning of the day (Day3)

Ask the learners to carefully enter the stock from the:
Jigsaw Balance Figures: ONE - Opening Stock Values

Remind them that this is not a race and it is better to take longer than to make
a mistake.

Mistakes can be rectified using the reversal process.
A detailed “Reversal Guide” is available on the subspaceonline- Training

Support Documents under Handouts - and the title of the document is
“Accounting - Revesal Handout”.

Remind them that you are there to help and to ask you if they are unsure of
any item that they are entering.

Once the learners have entered all the stock listed, they should press SETTLE -
the system will print a receipt shown what has been added.

This receipt should be kept with the remittance paperwork for that delivery.

Suggest that a Balance Snapshot should be printed to confirm the stock has
been populated.

e Back Office [F14]

e Stock Balancing [F3]

« Balance Snapshot (41)
© Print (22)

That is the end of this session.

