POL00126931

POL00126931

One to One Meeting Record
Name: Suzanne Winter
Line Manager: Keith Gilchrist
Date of meeting:
One to One period covered: I 13/04/2013 to 30/05/2013
Celebrate key activities/Understand priorities/Imagine what you need to deliver activities

« Celebrate:

e Understand: Priorities at present are completing Ballynafeigh prosecution File

e Imagine:
Priorities this month — Preparing Security Events at Killyhevlin Enniskillen and four other
locations

Progressing evidential file for Newtownstewart through PPS
Progressing evidential file for Ballynafeigh
Closing Avoch

How you demonstrate our Directorate Behaviours — Care, Challenge, Commit

Torch Re Visits. Revisits completed within target

Technical Skills Workstream...the group is up to date with their targets. Conference call was on
Friday...

Greyabbey: requested update from Sheila McCann as spm holds a Skyguard unit sue to previous
incidents.

New Entrant Training: delivered Consequences of Theft to new trainees. (Kells and Fallaghloon)

Branch Manager Security Presentation: delivered presentation to Branch Managers (NI &
Scotland)..

NI Legal Process: Ernie Waterworth (EW)_ (solicitor) is now official legal advisor for NI POL
Security Team. Newtownstewart Prosecution file has been handed over to EW. EW meeting DPP
to establish if police can be taken out of the handing over process and EW deal directly with DPP. .

Barrack Street: evidence requested by PPS has been collated with covering statements. Police
have been contacted to arrange collection.

Security Events: Londonderry/Enniskillen Security Event was well supported and received good
feedback On both occasins a representative from Crime Prevention Unit gave a ten minute talk and
provided hand outs.. Dates have been arranged for the remainder four events. Portadown,
Templepatrick, Ballymena and South Belfast.

**North Kenton: all requested evidence and statements have been forwarded to Cartwright King.

121 *Name* *Date*
POL00126931
POL00126931

Progress against objectives Next milestone

On target The remainder four security
events have been arranged.

Regularly liaison with PSNI
regarding G* Summit and have
provided 24 hour emergency
contact for the three city
branches

Mentoring Simon with Fraud
induction both in N. Ireland and

Scotland
Presented NI Programme to John Scott, Rob King and Andy Complete the programme within
Hayward time scales
Areas for development/Support Activity Plan Progress
required/Time management
Support required for admin work re_ I Security Event On target

Security Event

Action Points and Line Managers comments

Suzanne to liaise with Simon and complete organisation of the four remainder Security Events by
4* July

Suzanne to identify learning points from May Event and examine best way forward with them for the
next event.

Suzanne to mentor Simon Hutchinson and identify areas for development

Fraud case update; (cases causing issues delays etc).
North Kenton: is scheduled for court in June. Please see comments above***

C:\Documents and
Settings\suzanne.win Case updates

121 *Name* *Date*
POL00126931
POL00126931

Individuals comments

Thanks to security event helpers.

Thanks from Andy Hayward regarding visit to NI.

121 *Name* *Date*
