POL00048235
POL00048235

Application to enter Land Registry
a restriction

Ifyou need more room than is provided for in a panel, use continuation sheet CS and attach to this form.

1. Administrative area and postcode if known : Land Registry, Swansea Office, Ty Bry n Glass, High
Street, Swansea, SAI 1PA

2. Title number(s) WA964277

The Post Office Holyhead Road Gaerwen, Isle of Anglesey LL60 6DB

3. If you have already made this application by outline application, -
insert reference number: OLA/V936GBH

4. Property Insert address or other description.

The restriction applied for is to affect Place “X” in the appropriate box and complete as necessary.
the whole of each registered estate

T™ the part(s) of the registered estate(s) shown on the attached plan by State reference e.g. “edged red”.

f° the registered charge(s) dated in favour of
referred to in the Charges Register
5. Application and fee 4 fee calculator for all types of applications can be found on FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Land Registry’s website at www.landregistry. gov.uk/fees Record of fee paid
Restriction Fee paid £ 40

Fee payment method: Place “X” in the appropriate box Particulars of under/over payment

I wish to pay the appropriate fee payable under the current Land
Registration Fee Order:

by postal order, amount £40 made Fees debited £
payable to “Land Registry”.

™ _ by Direct Debit under an authorised agreement with Land

Resi
egistry Reference number

6. Documents lodged with this application // this application is accompanied by either Form API or FRI please only complete
the corresponding panel on Form API or DL. Number the documents in sequence; copies should also be numbered and listed as separate
documents, alternatively you may prefer to use Form DL. If you supply the original document and a certified copy, we shall assume that you
request the return of the original; if a certified copy is not supplied, we may retain the original document and it may be destroyed.

A Certified Copy of a Restraining Order granted under Section 41 of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002 by His Honour Judge Macrae at Croydon Crown Court on the 74 November 2006

7. The applicant is: Please provide the full name of the person applying for the restriction
Michael Francis Matthews Accredited Financial Investigator Royal Mail Group ple
The application has been lodged by:
Land Registry Key No. (if appropriate)
Name (if different from the applicant)
Address/DX No.
PO Box 1 Croydon CR9 1WN

Reference

POL00048235
POL00048235

8. Where you would like us to deal with someone else Ie shall deal only with the applicant, or the person lodging the
application if different, unless you place “X” against one or more of the statements below and give the necessary details

Send title information document to the person shown below
™ Raise any requisitions or queries with the person shown below

™ Return original documents lodged with this form (see note in panel 6) to the person shown below
If this applies only to certain documents, please specify.

Name
Address/DX No.

Reference
E-mail

Telephone No. [ Fax No.

9. Entitlement to apply for a restriction Place “X” in the appropriate box.
1 The applicant is the registered proprietor of the registered estate/charge referred to in panel 4.

IT” The applicant is the person entitled to be registered as proprietor of the registered estate/charge
referred to in panel 4. Complete panel 12.

The consent of the registered proprietor of the registered estate/charge referred to in panel 4
accompanies this application or the applicant’s conveyancer certifies that he holds this consent.
Complete panel 11.

© The consent of the person entitled to be registered as proprietor of the registered estate/charge
referred to in panel 4 accompanies this application or the applicant’s conveyancer certifies that he
holds this consent. Complete panels 11 and 12.

Evidence that the applicant has sufficient interest in the making of the entry of the restriction applied
for in panel 10 accompanies this application. Complete panel 13.

10. The applicant applies to enter the following restriction against the registered estate/charge referred

to in panel 4: Please set out the form of restriction required. Schedule 4 to the Land Registration Rules 2003 contains standard forms
of restrictions. Use this form to apply for a standard form of restriction (as set out in Schedule 4 to the Land Registration Rules 2003) or,
where appropriate, a restriction in another form. If the restriction is not a standard form of restriction, the registrar must be satisfied that
the terms of the proposed restriction are reasonable and that applying the proposed restriction would be straightforward and not place an
unreasonable burden on him. If the restriction requires notice to be given to a person, requires a person's consent or certificate or is a
standard form restriction that refers to a named person, include that person’s address for service.

Form EE (restraint order or interim receiving order on the registered estate)

Under a restraint order made under Section 41 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 on 2 November 2006 at
Croydon Crown Court no disposition by the proprietor of the registered estate is to be registered without
the consent of The Solicitor to Royal Mail Group, Criminal Law Team, 6 Ecclestone Street London SW1W.
9LT or under a further order of the Court.

POL00048235
POL00048235

11. Evidence of consent Please complete this panel if instructed to do so in panel 9. Place “X” in the appropriate box.

™ The [registered proprietor of][person entitled to be registered as the proprietor of] the registered
estate/charge referred to in panel 4 consents to the entry of the restriction and that person or their
conveyancer has completed panel 15.

© Tam the applicant’s conveyancer and certify that I hold the consent referred to in panel 9.

Tt The consent referred to in panel 9 is contained on page of the document numbered referred
to in [panel 6][Form AP1][Form DL].

12. Evidence of entitlement to be registered as proprietor Please complete this panel if instructed to do so in panel 9.
Place “X”" in the appropriate box.

t™ Tam the applicant’s conveyancer and certify that I am satisfied that the applicant/person consenting
to this application is entitled to be registered as proprietor and that I hold the originals of the
documents that contain evidence of that person’s entitlement, or an application for registration of that
person as proprietor is pending at Land Registry.

rt Evidence that the applicant/person consenting to this application is entitled to be registered as
proprietor is contained in the document(s) numbered referred to in [panel 6][Form AP1][Form
DL]. —_

13. Evidence that the applicant has sufficient interest Please complete this panel if instructed to do so in panel 9.

¥ State brief details of the applicant’s interest in the making of the entry of the restriction applied for in
panel 10.

A Certified Copy of a Restraining Order granted under Section 41 of the Proceeds of Crime
Act 2002 by His Honour Judge Pratt at Croydon Crown Court on the 2"! November 2006

r
Evidence of this interest is contained in the document(s) numbered. referred to in [panel 6]

[Form AP1][Form DL].

14. Signature of applicant
or their conveyancer Date

15. Consent

Consent to the entry of the restriction specified in panel 10 is given by:

Names BLOCK CAPITALS Signatures
1. 1.
2. 2.
3. 3.

© Crown copyright (ref: LR/HQ/CD-ROM) 6/03
