POL00032755
POL00032755

Relocation and Re-Opening of Agency Offices - FSA
Guide

The following guide is to be followed when scheduled to attend an
Office that is identified on the Training Requirements Form as
relocating or re-opening. It is the intention that, by following the
guide prior to and during prep day attendance, the opening day will
proceed more smoothly.

Contents include:

e Discussion Guide for Pre Prep Day Telephone Call to
Property Projects Network Change Manager (NCA) or Field
Change Advisor

e Prep Day Activity Ticklist

e Roles and Responsibilities of Property Projects NCA, Field
Change Advisor and ,Property Projects, Scheduling Support
for information

e Feedback Review Form

Re-opening and Relocation Offices will have a dedicated Property
Projects Scheduling Support and NCA. Initial contact with the
Property Projects NCA, for a particular Office re-opening will
identify whether there are any issues or foreseen problems.

To find out contact details for the appropriate Property Projects
Support person (e. g. Network Change Advisor / ween Offic.

contact Lisa Williams or Fiona Cepek on,
will provide this information.

Relocation V7 Feb 10 1
Pre Prep Telephone Call to Property Projects Network Change

Manager (NCA)

It is suggested that this call is made 3-5 days prior to the prep day

The key call will be to the Network Change Advisor. Introduce

yourself explaining your Role. Ask: Is the Office on schedule for
re-opening? Have there been any issues I need to be aware of?

In discussing whether the Office is on schedule for re-opening, you
may, also wish to cover and confirm that the activities below have
been completed, or when they are going to be completed. Note:
some of these activities may not be scheduled to take place until

nearer the re-opening date.

POL00032755
POL00032755

Action

Complete

TBC

Is the NCA aware of any issues with
the Royal Mail Collections and
Deliveries being arranged by the FCA?

Is there a Post Box?

What are the Official Opening Times of
the Office?

Have the Horizon Online comms been
installed? (ISDN / ADSL / Vsat)

Has the Horizon Online equipment
been installed?

Is there a datestamp in the Office?

Were there any issues with the Horizon
Online installation? (e.g. Problems
with configuration/ any bits of kit
requiring replacement

Relocation V7 Feb 10
Is there any problem or delay with
works due to be completed by the
Subpostmaster including building
works?

Are there electronic scales and, if yes,
are they connected and working.

Has the Alarm been installed and
tested, and the new Postmaster given
training and the alarm codes?

When is Stock and Cash due to be
delivered?
Day and time.

Is there an ATM and, if yes, what type

Is it a Mailwork Office and, if yes, has
training been arranged for new Agent?
Mailwork Guide attached to On Line
Brief to be used as an aid prior to
receiving training

Is it a Lottery Office and, if yes, has
training been arranged for new Agent?

Are there any Local Schemes? e.g.
SWEB key Charging, Bus Passes.

Is there a Paypoint or Asylum Seeker
machine and have they been
connected?

Have the Stores been delivered? How
many boxes?

Prep Day Ticklist

OFSA to complete the following on Prep Day and resolve any

issues

Complete

Horizon Agent to Log on to Horizon Online to
ensure he has been added as a User and
knows his password.

This will also act as a check that the
system is working ok.

Check that the system is in the correct
Trading Period.

Any problems with Horizon Online prior to
going live refer to NCA or SS. Faults after

Relocation V7 Feb 10

POL00032755
POL00032755
opening can only be dealt with by NBSC

Pinpad

Ensure connected and working — test on
Horizon Online

POL00032755
POL00032755

Printer

Ensure Counter Printer and Back Office
Printer work and that there are spare Rolls
and Ink for each.

Show Postmaster how to change Rolls
and Ink pads

Safe

Confirm with Postmaster the
opening/closing times of the Safe. Ensure
Postmaster has code and is able to
unset/set the safe.

Stock and
Cash

FSA to guide Agent through checking the
stock and cash and entering onto Horizon
Online.

If the Office is an MVL Office ensure an
adequate supply of Tax Discs have been
received.

If delivered on Prep Day the Agent can be
shown how to accept a Remittance.
Check delivery days for cash and stock.
Confirm with Agent when and how to
check Planned Orders

Datestamp

Ensure correct date for opening and
sufficient spare ink pads

Stores

Empty boxes and arrange stores in Office.
Agent to be shown by FSA how to order
any missing items using Stores Ops
Manual.

Any priority items missing from delivery
FSA to collect from nearby Office if
possible.

Check enough Horizon Online
consumables and order form.

ATM

Ensure instructions for ATM are available.
If BO! ATM ensure that Stock Unit is
created by Agent for ATM.

Relocation V7 Feb 10
Staff Confirm how many staff are working in the
Office and ensure Agent is aware of need
for extra cover during training.

FSA may wish to check this when they
make initial contact with the Office prior to
Prep Day

Opening Has anything been arranged with Press,

Launch etc for an “official” opening and when will it
take place?

It is advised in letter received by Agent
from Project Support that any official
openings are deferred for a week or more
following the transfer date

Combi/Open I Ensure Retention Units are attached for

Plan/SSOC_ I Datestamp and Stamp Portfolio

Operations I Confirm necessary manuals available in

Manuals the Office, or order if required

Trading Check Trading Period Group for the Office

Period and date that the next Trading statement is

due
If calendar has not been received with
Stores confirm dates on EASE

Relocation V7 Feb 10

POL00032755
POL00032755
POL00032755
POL00032755

Property Projects involvement in Branch Change

Property Projects include the Network Change Advisor and
Scheduling Support and are responsible for:

Network Change Advisor —

Overall responsibility for the project being delivered

e The supply and installation of equipment in a branch in
relation to: alarms; Horizon Online; safes and scales.

e The order of stores packs.

e The monitoring/management of the physical change activity to
completion

e The management of all issues in respect of its suppliers,
namely: Romec National Projects Group, Romec Security,
Fujitsu Services, Avery, Insafe/Savages whilst the project
continues to be live.

¢ The migration of Horizon Online.

e The supply of a schedule to the sub postmaster detailing the
activity they should undertake (including timescales) and
Property Projects will undertake (including timescales).

Scheduling Support —

e The migration of Horizon Online (If required).
e The ordering of cash and stock (Re-opening and opening

only).

Relocation V7 Feb 10 6
POL00032755
POL00032755

e Book CViT attendance — Delivery / Defund / Refund of cash &
stock.

e The ordering of the branch code stamp.

e Requesting Audit attendance — Send E-mail to Outlet Field
Support (Relocation with change of Postmaster).

e¢ Completing the multi use form - Send E-mail to HR Agent
Recruitment.

¢ Telephoning the branch on days when activity is taking place
to confirm that it is taking place and there aren't any problems.

Note - The project will move to the Business As Usual
domain, and therefore Network Business Support
Centre/Horizon Online Support Helpline, once the equipment
has successfully served the first customer.

e Property Projects are not responsible for:

e The sortation/handling of stores packs to the appropriate
storage or distribution point or the content of the stores pack.
We will however chase missing stores (via Swindon) once
advised of such by a trainer opening the stores and telling us if
anything is in fact missing/incorrect.

e The summarisation of cash and stock to Horizon Online (we
book in the bulk cash and stock only).

e The supply, installation, operation of ATM’s

e The format of the branch

e The transactions available on Horizon Online. However if any
products were authorised yet missing we will rectify the
situation.

Relocation V7 Feb 10 7
POL00032755
POL00032755

Business As Usual Field Change Advisor involvement in
Branch Change

The Field Change Advisor is responsible for:

¢ Making initial contact with branch to discuss project.

e Requesting blueprint validation and migration modelling.

e Visiting branch to discuss project and provide information on:
space requirement; DDA compliance; TUPE; format;
location; restrictions policy; grant funding; approximate costs;
contracts. Encourage open plan format to increase sales and
branch viability.

e Seek input from internal stakeholders before authorising
change activity.

e¢ Completion of Change Authority Forms and Branch enquiry
form.

e Collate information for consultation, compete consultation
forms and send to Network Change Team.

e Liaise with Business Development team, Contracts team,
external stakeholders, external relations team and National
Consultation team throughout project.

e Manage relationship between Agent and Network Change
Advisor throughout project.

e Rollover of Horizon Online kit in temp closed branches if
required.

e¢ Complete vacancy report when premises are withdrawn.

e Complete Heads of Terms documents when vacancies are
advertised “near”.

e Meet with external stakeholder’s e.g. Parish Councils, District
Councils, MP’s regarding Network Change projects.

e Manage Greenfield site applications, including survey, report
and correspondence.

e Request provision of Posting Boxes and Collections from
Royal Mail.

Look for suitable alternative premises and agents for temporary
managed branches.

Relocation V7 Feb 10 8
POL00032755
POL00032755

Field Support Advisor

e 3-5 days prior to transfer contacting Project Support to find
out status of Office reopening using telephone call list

e Make initial contact with Office to arrange attendance on
Prep day

e On Prep Day - Day before official transfer date. FSA to
follow tick list for Prep Day. Deal with any outstanding
issues by liaising with Project Support

e¢ Opening Day — Business as Usual training new Agent

Review Form

To be completed by FSA

Relocation V7 Feb 10 9
Pre Prep Telephone Call

What issues were raised and
how were they resolved?

Were there any outstanding
issues?

Comments:

POL00032755
POL00032755

Prep Day Ticklist

What issues were raised and
how were they resolved?

Were there any outstanding
issues?

Comments:

Improvement Suggestions

Were the Telephone Call and
Ticklist useful?

Any suggestions for improving
the process?

Comments:

Stores issues

Were there any Stores issues?

Comments:

Please complete and e-mail the review form to Rita Kendellen

Relocation V7 Feb 10

10
POL00032755
POL00032755

Relocation V7 Feb 10 11
