POL00105209
POL00105209

Andrea Gignac

To: Rachael Panter
Subject: FW: Horizon issues URGENT

From: martin smith

Sent: 26 March 2013 15:24

To: ‘Jarnail A Singh’

Subject: RE: Horizon issues URGENT

Jarnail,

Thanks for your e-mail.

1. If applications were made to adjourn all existing cases until after the report becomes available,
this would result in a "nightmare" situation. The fact that applications had been made would send
out the wrong message and it would be assumed by many that POL had found and was trying to

resolve a problem with the Horizon system. Whilst it could be made known that no problems had
been found by POL, it is unlikely that defendants would believe such a statement. I would expect

there to be numerous applications for disclosure and extra hearings (and extra cost).

2. Ina significant number of cases, admissions are made in interview and no issues are raised
with regard to the integrity of the Horizon system. POL would be open to criticism if the
prosecution of these cases should be delayed. Similarly there could also be adverse judicial
comment if the prosecutions in cases in which no admissions have been made were delayed.

3. The best approach in my view is to treat each case individually. The prosecution can
commence in the usual way and upon receipt of the Defece Case Statement, any challenge to the
integrity of the Horizon system can be considered. Of course the first time we may get to know of
a "challenge" may be in the DCS. If a "real" issue is raised, the case could be adjourned until after
the report becomes available. The defence could apply for the adj and we would not object. If,
however, the challenge raised in the DCS is flawed, has no basis or foundation, or relevance and is
clearly just an attempt to frustrate the prosecution, the case can continue in the usual way.

Please do not hesitate to call me if you have any questions or wish to discuss any aspects of this

further,

Kind regards,

Martin.

POL00105209
POL00105209

From: Jarnail A Singh [
Sent: 26 March 2013 14:18
To: Andy Cash; martin smith
Subject: FW: Horizon issues URGENT

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

Jamail.a.singh
Post Offi

OOHOOOC®D

@postofticenews

From: Jarnail A Singh

Sent: 26 March 2013 13:31

To: ‘Andy Cash’

Cc: martin smith

Subject: Horizon issues URGENT

Andy
May I have your view on . Why POL cannot simply stay and hold fire in prosecutions where there has been alleged
Horizon issues Yes or no .Can we stay some or is it all or nothing?

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

@ _barailasingt
& Post Office stories

® @postotficenews

XSI ISI a SIO III DIO III AAD IOI SODAS IIIA

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any
views or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

2
POL00105209
POL00105209

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.
