POL00030657

POL00030657

Investigation Policy Page I
Appendix 16

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY

1 PURPOSE
The aim of this policy is to set out the criteria against which Consignia investigates crimes and suspect
crimes committed against the Businesses and also define when actions proceed under criminal law.

2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES
Security Managers

3. POLICY

3.1 INTRODUCTION
Consignia’s business and reputation depend on the integrity of its employees and its procedures. It has
rules and processes designed to enable it to meet its obligations to protect the items and resources
entrusted to it and, where crimes or suspected crimes are committed against these, its policy is to
investigate them and take appropriate action.

3.2 REPORTING OFFENCES
Crimes or suspect crimes against the following must be reported to the Security and Investigation
Services or the appropriate Business Security and Investigation Unit, for investigation or liaison with
the police:
© Consignia’s property, cash and revenue
© Its employees in the course of business
© Mail in course of transmission by post
e Customers whilst their transaction documents are in the custody or control of Consignia e.g.

pensions and allowance books, TV Licences.
© Organisations or individuals by misuse of Consignia services e.g. fraudulent mail redirection or PO
Box used for unlawful purposes.

e The relevant procedures may be found in Consignia Standards and Operating Protocols.

3.3 Each case will be dealt with on merit and action taken (if any), will be in accordance with the
disciplinary code of the business.
Where evidence of a crimes committed by a Consignia employee against Consignia or its customer is
established, the offending employee may also be dealt with in accordance with criminal law. The
prosecution guidelines of the business will be used in making any decision to proceed under criminal
law, in consultation with SIS and the Legal Services Criminal Law Division where appropriate.

3.4 INTERFACE WITH LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
The main Consignia interface with other agencies e.g. police, customs, Interpol, DSS etc., is SIS. The
are occasions where a SIS investigator or an investigator within a Business Unit will necessarily hand
an offender into Police custody. In these cases the decision to instigate prosecution is made by SIS.

Policy Title Investigation and Prosecution

Version: 10

Date:
POL00030657
POL00030657

Investigation Policy Page 2
Appendix 16

INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION POLICY
4. Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version — Type Policy No.
41
5. Document details
5.1 Author :
5.2 Owner : Head of Corporate Security
5.3 Audience: Security Community
5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ
5.5 Effective from : March 2000
5.6 Review date :
5.7 Last updated : March 2000
6. Assurance Details:
61 Name
6.2 Business Unit:
6.3 Assurance Date:
1 Final Review
7.1 I Approved by
72 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:
71.3 a (Electronic) YES/NO Location:
Policy Title: Investigation and Prosecution
Version: 10

Date:
