POL00448403
POL00448403

thenext

millionaire

could be browsing
this page

LOTTO

sk

Post Office executive’s chilling two words that led
to scandal revealed

In conversations recorded in 2020 and 2021, a Post Office executive was reportedly heard insisting some postmasters were
guilty of stealing cash.

Vio

eco convertor reveal a Pot fc ena’ bee abut au pina age ty)

onain {A senior Pst Office executive used two ching wots to wrongly insist some sub-postmastersprosected were guilty of stealing
be eddie casn inthe Horzon I scandal an investgaton has revealed

‘The Post Office executive was recorded on tape between 2020 and 2021 talking about the setup of operations within the
business, TakTV has reported

Executive, Richard Taylor, is heard saying people “downright stole" some of the £30,000 that was stored in safes within Post
Offices,

In the recorded conversations where Mr Taylor is describing his thought pracess behind the scandal, he said: *..the main stuf
Which we give you is 30,000 pounds in cash to stick ina safe.

"And the problem with 30,000 pounds in cash in a safe is if you've got 11 and a half thousand post officers is some of those
people decide to... not necessarily with any particular intent... to borrow that money fora litle while... well some of them
downright stole i.”

113
POL00448403
POL00448403

‘Mr Taylor, the current Group Corporate Affairs, Communications and Brand Ditector for Post Office also admitted in the
recordings, that some postmasters had been "hard done by" because of the scandal,

READ MORE: Post Office investigators received bonuses for Horizon convictions (/news/uk/1854773ipost-office
investigators-bonuses)

‘Mr Taylor even claimed some postmasters used the money to pay for stock for their shops at the local cash and carry,

He added: "There are probably some people for whom they have been hard done by. But some other people stole the money. I
‘mean i's never been proven that there was a link between the computer glitch and anybody actually losing money.”

He told TalkTV: "I am deeply sorry about the terrible impact ofthis scandal on victims and have consistently apologised forall
they have suffered. I sincerely apologise for any past remarks that ! may have made during personal conversations which
‘cause hurt or offence.”

Between 1999 and 2015, the Post Office prosecuted 700 sub-postmasters and sub-postmistresses after the fauity Horizon IT
system made it lok tke money was missing rom their branches.

‘Many were jailed, some tooke thelr own lives, and some have since died - i's a scandal that is back in the spotlight after ITV's
‘Mr Bates vs The Post Office thrust the issue tothe top of the political agenda after victims struggled for years to clear their

‘names and secure proper payouts.

(Only 98 out of 700 convictions have been overturned, with more victims coming forward since the drama aired last week. The
scandal is currently being investigated as part of the Government's Horizon IT Inquiry.

Don't miss.
post-office-scandal) [LATEST]

horizon-scandal-extortion) [LATEST]
Evjitsu bosses who pocketed huge sums in Post Office scandal ‘named and shamed” (Inews/uk/1854477/fujtsu-

TRENDING

23
Rishi Sunak (/alestrishi-sunak) this week said a new law wil be introduced to make sure those wrongly convicted are “swifly

‘exonerated and compensated”

He also announced an “upfront payment” of £75,000 which will be made available to hundreds of postmasters

DON'T MISS

Expert reveats the iss prison
bosses need to avoid after MP.

roweres or 4 mantis

MeDonale's offers free birthday cake Just Stop!
doughnut, hailed better than Kriapy years over
‘tans

Dartmoor closure Kreme by comege

(tip: imwwexpress.co.ukinews/uk/1924944/dartmoor- (nttps:iiwmwexpress.co.uk/newsiuk (https

prison-radon-gas-closure? s-offers-free-bithday-ca ise

In souree=mants.recint_ medium=webaint_campaign=more_ike_this) oughnut-ailed-better-thar-krispy- _int_source
me.

(tos ina orpr0ss 20.8)

3?
t_source=mantis_recBint_ medi oj

(rtpssiwerwoxpress.co.uk)

Ministers have now drawn up plans for new laws that will allow convictions to be overturned instead of victims having to make

Individual cour appeals.

‘Meanwhile, the ex-Post Ofice boss Paula Vennells handed back her CBE on Tuesday "with immediate effect” after more than

‘one milion people signed a petition for her to do so.

‘She ran the Post Office (atestinost-ofice) when It routinely denied there was a problem with its Horizon IT system,

Enior your oma adress hore

SUBSCRIBE

Post Ofc iatesvpostofce} Gout news atesveoun

POL00448403
POL00448403

3/3
