POLOO096660

POLO0096660

Message

From: Paula Vennelis!

Sent: 19/06/2012 1

To: i it I; Alwen Lyons (7 "GRO “"}]; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd
cc: Susan Crichton {’ H

Subject: Tonight's meeting

FYI - a good response.

Regards
Paula

=---+1 Original Message-----
From: ARBUTHNOT, James [mailtoz
Sent: 19 June 2012 11:27

To: Paula Vennells

Subject: PRINTED RE: Tonight's meeting

Dear Paula,

Thank you for your message, and for a really positive meeting.

I_was very pleased with how it went, and

am glad we are all in agreement about the proposal. This bodes well for us all, and I am grateful to you,

Angela, Alwen, and Alice for devoting so much time to this.

I have asked Janet to get in touch with Alwen, as I would like to circulate the notes from the meeting,
the terms of reference for the proposal, and the press release to all MPs who have expressed an interest

jn the matter.
Thank you again. I really am very pleased.
Yours ever,

James

office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www. jamesarbuthnot . com

----- original Message-----
From: Paula Vennells [mailto}
Sent: 18 June 2012 23:08

To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Cc: Alice Perkins CB; Alwen Lyons.
Subject: Tonight's meeting

Dear James,

thank you for hosting and chairing the meeting earlier this evening.

I know I speak on behalf of Alice and all the team: we are very grateful to you for providing the
opportunity to resolve transparently and robustly the outstanding queries. whilst I know they only relate
to a small number of SubPostmasters, as long as this continues to concern them and their MPs, it is a
concern for me too. And the sooner we are able to reassure everyone, the better it will be for all, not

least the Post Office.
Alwen will be in touch with Janet re next steps.
Kind regards,

Paula

sent from my iPhone

POL-0096243
POLOO096660
POLO00096660

FI IHG ISIS SSIES EMG ISERSHnnineeieienii ieee

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y OHQ with
the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

Te IOS Ion nie inn ini ini ie fet ie ini ier ieirioieirainiesriiesiiiriiieiriiiege sear irseieiesiieie sees ae te

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify
the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus
transmitted by this e-mail

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify
the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted.
This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus
transmitted by this e-mail.

yawneweewee

Se ein ei es ee ie sree rari sess eerie dessert asa tt
This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the
named recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication. If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then delete this email
from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y OHQ with
the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the
registered company number 02154540

Ten nnn diinniniininii ini ieiinieininii ini inicio iriiesriniciiiode inte otegeieteiieieaietra tea

POL-0096243
