Rod
What about the courier or upfront maybe

Cheers
Marie

Branch Accounting & Control Manager
Post Office Ltd
Finance

First Floor East Block, 1 Future Walk, West Bars, CHESTERFIELD, S49 1PF

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the
addressee(s) only. If you are not the named recipient you must not use,
disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this
communication.

If you have received this in error, please contact the sender and then
delete this email from your system.

Rod Ismay
22/01/2007 12:45

To: Mandy Talbot/e

Thanks Mandy - great news. And thanks to everyone in this email and in
your teams as I know you have had to do a lot of work in supporting the
defence case here. Like you, my team faced a stack of witness interviews
and court attendances at one time so the progress and conclusion here is
great news.

What can we do on a pro-active comms front here? We've watched the
various inflammatory letters in the Subpostmaster letters page and wanted
to be able to assure branches and clients that they can rely on the
integrity of Horizon.

We've had some good articles in the Subpostmaster about NBSC, Online
Service and Cash In Transit. I am planning briefs on what P&BA does.

Any thoughts on comms following this case?
Thanks, Rod

Rod Ismay - Post Office Ltd - Head of Product _& Branch Accounting _

POL00157980
POL00157980
No 1 Future Walk, West Bars, Chesterfield, S49 1PF
P&BA.

ervicing today's clients to win tomorrow's new business

Mandy Talbot
22/01/2007 11:38

To: Clare Wardle/e/,

Rod

Keith K Baines)
Smithhivony
Tony R.Uttinas.
Wardh

Subject: Castletori

This is just to let you know that we have been completely successful in
defending all the allegations made by Mr Castleton. You will recall that
he contended that no genuine losses occurred whilst he was a postmaster
and that any losses were manufactured by the HORIZON system. The
Judgement has entirely vindicated the HORIZON system.

Judgement has been awarded in our favour for the original debt, the
counterclaim for £250,000 was dismissed, he was ordered to pay our legal
costs at the standard rate up to the date of a part 36 offer in January

2006 and the last possible date he could have accepted it and thereafter
at the indemnity rate. This was to reflect the fact that he ignored a
sensible offer to settle and a number of attempts to get him to agree to
mediation. Interest was awarded at the normal rate on the award of
damages and the costs we have paid up to the date of the rejected part 36
but thereafter at the Bank of England base lending rate plus 10%. He was
ordered to make an interim payment of £50,000 within 28 days of todays
date.

Mr Castleton appeared to be stunned by the result and did not apply for
leave to appeal against the decision. There were journalists at Court and
it is possible that this will be picked up by the media.

Mandy Talbot
Dispute Resolution
Company Secretary's Office
Royal Mail Legal Services
148 Old Street

London EC1V 9HQ

External

POL00157980
POL00157980
