POL00137282
POL00137282

From:

Sent: Thur 18/10/2012 6:57:25 AM (UTC)
To: Simon Baker

Subject: Fwd: E&Y Audit

FYI

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer, Post Office Ltd
LONDON EC1V 9HQ

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended
recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

Begin forwarded message:

GRO I

From: Lesley J Sewell 7
Date: 18 October 2012 0'
To: Sarah Hall
Ce: Malcolm Zack
Subject: Re: E&Y Audit

Thx Sarah
Malcolm.

I will be looking for you help with this to challenge my team and support them in ensuring we get
these actions tied up in a neat little bow.

The power of a good lunch!

-——- Original Message -----

From: Sarah Hall

Sent: Thursday, October 18, 2012 06:18 AM
To: Lesley J Sewell

Cc: Malcolm Zack

Subject: Re: E&Y Audit

Hi Lesley,
Thank you and if Andy can do all that it should clear up my concerns before EY get in here. It has

felt quite difficult to get real confirmation of successful progress up to now. We should do lunch
more often!
POL00137282
POL00137282

I've copied Malcolm - I'm not sure if you've met him yet, but he's the new Head if Internal Audit -
as he has been looking at this over the last few days so may identify something missing from the
actions you've asked Andy to address.

Thanks and all three of us should keep in touch on this when you come back from holiday.

Regards,
Sarah

woos Original Message -----

From: Lesley J Sewell

Sent: Wednesday, October 17, 2012 06:29 PM
To: Andy J Jones

Cc: Simon Baker; Sarah Hall

Subject: E&Y Audit

Andy

Forgive me if Simon has already caught up with you on the E&Y audit actions as I discussed with
him on Monday oversight and progress. I thought it was worth following up with a mail as I also
had a discussion with Sarah today.

I have a meeting arranged at the end of this month with Denise to go through progress and
discuss next years audit.

What I do need is a detailed summary against each audit action, what steps have been taken and
completed. On completed actions can you please ensure we have seen sight of the evidence to
confirm that the actions have been completed satisfactorily and that they do cover the whole year.
We do not want to have similar findings from this years audit around embedding of changes or no
evidence provided to post office. For those which are yet to complete a clear view on the planned
end date - and again how we can assure ourselves that we will not get into the cycle with E&Y
around evidence or not being in place for the full year.

There are also a number of actions where we did recommend these were an acceptable level of
risk. Out of the Risk committee there were a number of actions for us to demonstrate that this
was an acceptable risk to POL, can you please confirm where we are against these and when we
will be looking for the committee to sign off. There needs to be engagement with Finance and
Compliance ahead of these being agreed by the committee.

I have the details from the POLSAP audit which I am reviewing on Friday with audit, we also
recommended a review to be conducted on the other Horizon actions. Can I please have an
update on where we are with this.

In addition, Fujitsu have committed to a SAS70 this year. Can I please have an update on where
we are with this.

Can you let me know what discussions are underway with regard to planning next year.

Simon and I also discussed how we support these activities, please give Simon your views.
Simon, one for us to discuss when I'm back.
POL00137282
POL00137282

I am off next week and I am meeting with Denise the week I am back - think its the 30th. Can I
please have the update for the Monday of my return.

Sarah: from your perspective have I missed anything?
Lesley
Lesley J Sewell

Chief Information Officer, Post Office Ltd
148 Old Street LONDON EC1V 9HQ

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential
and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the
original message.
