POL00028603

POL00028603
Sf
Rich, Paul
From: Stuart Sweetman
To: Rich, Paul; Miller, Dave (Horizon); Evans, Jonathan; Tabor, Roger
Subject: Fwd: Horizon Update
Date: 23 February 1999 17:30
To see the note I put up the line.
Stuart
ToNeville Bain; GRO john Roberts.
Richard Close/i__ sanseinninin BRO, ~: Jerry Copes_

cc

Hard Copy To

Hard Copy cc .
From Stuart Sweetmar.
Date 23/02/99 08:43

Subject Horizon Update

Our latest intelligence is that an agreed way forward was being put to No10 yesterday afternoon. This
followed Byers agreeing the line that the parties should be given three weeks to negotiate the
alternative proposal that emerged a week or so ago. His line was that if after three weeks agreement
did not emerge then we reverted to option 1. We understand from DTI officials that one thing that
might happen is that the Prime Minister may phone Neville or John to explain the situation!

I believe we should really give the new option a thorough workout with the following key aims

1. It must be commercially acceptable - as good as previous Board authority and meets agreed
non-negotiables ( eg PO strategic control kept)

2. The PO's vision for POCL is sustained or accelerated

3. Government public announcements support the above and establish among our stakeholders

4. Key strategic risks are mitigated ( customer retention, income flows, uncontrolled network changes
etc]

5. A revised and agreed programme plan is produced that matches POCL's key needs - pace of
installation together with a plan for service development( enabling process efficiencies as well as
market -based products)

As an Executive team we will clearly need to keep close during a period of intensive activity and to
keep the non-execs fully in the picture and on side.

We have recently reviewed the business case figures from the last round of negotiations and to give us
a firm point to start the next round I attach the ‘hierarchy of NPV's' as we now have them.

Stuart

< <File Attachment: NPVFeb99.doc > >

Page 1

