Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

5.1 Forensic Services
Version 1.0 Final

Jan 2012

Review Date: Jan 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security

eee GRO

© Royal Mail 2012 -3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 1 of 2

POL00122588
POL00122588
POL00122588

POL00122588

Contents
Key Accountabilities 3
1. Introduction 4
2. Forensic Services Available to Investigators 4
3. Submission of Items for Forensic Examination 5
Change Control 7

8

Glossary

© Royal Mail 2012 -3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 2 of 8
POL00122588

POL00122588
Key Accountabilities
Who is What do I have to When dol have to I How dol do
accountable? do? do this? this?
All members of Ensure you comply Ongoing Be aware of the
Royal Mail with these procedures document
Security

© Royal Mail 2012 - 3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 3 of 8
POL00122588
POL00122588

Forensic Services
1. Introduction

1.1 Forensic services are normally accessed to determine the significance of evidence
recovered, particularly in cases that are thought to present a high risk of challenge in court.
The most common forensic analysis undertaken in Royal Mail Security (RMS) cases is the
raising and comparison of fingerprint impressions and the comparison of handwriting
samples; however other forensic tests are available to Investigators and these are detailed
in Section 2 below.

1.2 Currently the forensic science service provider Manlove Forensics Ltd (MFL) provides
forensic services to RMS. As the provision of forensic services can be very expensive,
authority for the submission of items for examination to MFL must be authorised by a Head
of Investigation (Hol), or a Senior Investigation Manager, (SIM) of equivalent or higher
grade. The submission process is detailed in Section 3 below.

Forensic Services Available to Investigators

2.1 MFL can undertake or facilitate many separate forensic examinations, including but not
exclusively the following;
2.1.1 Fingerprint examination and comparison.
2.1.2 Handwriting examination and comparison.
2.1.3. Document examination to determine if;
a. Alterations have been made to it by both the addition and/or removal of entries.
b. The “hidden writing” entries which have been obliterated by ink or correction fluid.
c. If it is genuine or counterfeit.
Reassembly of torn or shredded documents.
Date-stamp or print examination and comparison.
Indented handwriting examination (ESDA) and comparison.
Envelope/Pouch examination to determine if they have been opened and resealed.
Analysis of inks, paper, glue, toner etc.
Analysis of office equipment to identify the source of printed documentation.
2. 1. 10 DNA analysis, profiling and matching.
2.1.11 Video recording enhancement.

NNNNNN
SSSSS8
CoNounkh

2.2 Should Investigators require further details of the above services, or indeed require further
information on other services available, they can:
2.2.1 Visit the MFL website at; http://www.manloveforensics.co.uk
2.2.2 Contact them by telephone on 0845 371 2486 and ask to speak with either John or
Kathy Manlove or James Shackel.
2.2.3 Email them at either; —I.manlov

2.3. Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting Samples. These Procedures and Standards
(P&S) do not deal with obtaining fingerprint and handwriting specimens from subjects, for
further information on this please see P&S 7.7 Obtaining Fingerprint and Handwriting
Specimens.

2.4 Examination of Computers, Mobile Phones and Digital Storage Devices. The Digital
Forensic Team of RMS is responsible for examining digital devices and as such these
should not be referred to MFL. Further information on this can be found in the P&S 7.8
Recovering Computers, Mobile Phones & Digital Storage Devices for Evidential Purposes.

2.5 Copying Recording Media. Please note that should Investigators merely need to copy

Prosecution Support Office (PSO) on}
video/audio recording enhancement.

2.6 Necessity of Forensic Examination. Investigators in the Case (IIC) should consider the
value and necessity of forensically examining items in an investigation in order to ensure
that unnecessary costs are not incurred. Clearly, it is impossible to judge precisely when to
3.2

3.3

3.4

3.5

3.6

3.7

3.8

3.9

3.10

POL00122588
POL00122588

seek forensic assistance, as cases will vary, and people may change their plea at court; but
generally it is expected evidence should be put to most suspects before forensic
examination is undertaken, in case they admit the offence and negate the need for forensic
tests. However, in very serious prosecutions, or cases where the forensic evidence may be
thought to degenerate significantly, it may be considered prudent to get the forensic analysis
completed straight away.

Submission of items for Forensic Examination

If an lIC feels that a forensic examination is necessary they should contact one of the three
people at MFL detailed in paragraph 2.2 above. After giving details of what is required MFL
will give a preliminary estimate based on a “staged approach’.

Staged Approach. MFL will give an estimate for the different “stages” of the examination
that may be appropriate. For example if the request is to raise fingerprints for comparison
then MFL will estimate for raising the fingerprints as Stage 1. If prints are raised they will
then give an estimate for photographing the marks for comparison as Stage 2 and
subsequently Stage 3 may well be comparing the fingerprints against the National
Fingerprint Database. All forensic examination activity undertaken with MFL will follow the
general principle of a staged approach.

Authority from Hol. The IIC should then seek authority from their Hol, (or SIM of equivalent
grade or higher), for the forensic analysis to be undertaken by emailing them the provisional
MEL estimate and detailing the circumstances surrounding the forensic examination. If the
Hol gives authority it will be by email. Should authority be refused the Hol will inform the
applicant.

IC Submits Evidence and Copy of Authority to MFL. The IIC should then submit the
evidence to be examined to MFL by Special Delivery (SD) or by hand, with a completed
GS302 Forensic Laboratory Submission form. The IIC must ensure that the evidence is
packaged appropriately to preserve its quality and it must have completed item identification
labels attached. The completed GS302 must detail in full the offence being investigated and
exactly what examination is required.

Copy of the Hol Authority to MFL and the PSO. The IIC should then forward a copy the

prosecution.officg GRO}

Purchase Order (PO). The PSO will have an “open” PO which will be used to pay for all
forensic work within that particular financial year. The PSO will be responsible for
monitoring all forensic spend against budget.

Forensic Examination. MFL will undertake the work as requested using the staged
approach. Should there be any variation to the estimated costs, MFL will inform the IIC.
Should the IIC wish MFL to continue they should obtain further authority from the Hol. If
authority for the variation is authorised the IIC must forward a copy of the authorisation email
to MFL and to the PSO. Should the IIC not seek authority for the increased spend, or
authority be declined, then the IIC should request that MFL return all the evidence by SD or
by hand, with details of any work undertaken.

Completion of Forensic Analysis. On completion of the analysis MFL will return the
evidence to the IIC, again by SD or by hand. Associated with the evidence will be an
abbreviated report/statement and a feedback form which the IIC should complete and return.

MFL Submits the Invoice. MFL will send any invoices by hard copy to;
Accounts Payable
Royal Mail Finance Operations
PO Box 235
Chesterfield
S49 1ZS.

They will also forward a copy by email to the PSO at: prosecution.office

Process Map. Below is a process map which may be of use as an aide memoir. (Word
copy associated for ease of reproduction).

© Royal Mail 2012 - 3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 5 of 8
Process for
Obtaining Forensic Se

POL00122588

POL00122588

The Process for Obtaining Forensic Services

Forensic Examination is considered
necessary in the case.

{IC contacts the forensic service provider
MFL to obtain a preliminary estimate based
ona ‘Staged Approach”. (Note 1).

I

IC advises the Hol of the estimate value by
email and seeks authority to proceed .

Note 1 - MFL Contact Details
Investigators should contact either John or
Kathy Manlove or James Shackel

Note 2 Evidence Submitted
The evidence to be appropriately labelled
land the GS302 to include full details of the
loffence being investigated and examinationI
required.

Note 3 Payment to MEL

ML to send ‘hard copy“ of invoice to RM
Accounts Payable and an electronic copy
to; prosecutionoffica@royalmailcom

. IIC informed. Ne
Authority Granted? ‘No—>} Aol
IC must forward a copy of the
Yes. Hol authorisation showing the
increased value to the PSO.
Yes
TIC submits evidence to MFL, (by SD or by ;
hand) with completed GS302. (Note 2). Authority Granted?
IIC to forward the Hol authority email to the 7 No
relevant person in MFL , copyii the PSO.
at; prosecution.office/”
IIIC to seek authority from
Hol to increase in value of cminanieuncuie
MFL conducts the forensic analysis under estimata evidence with details of work
the staged approach. f undertaken.
Yes
No
Analysis
Does lic
‘completed in
eh >—_N widiaraliste
estimate? kok
Evidence and results of analysis returned to
L_Yes———} the lIC (by SD or by hand ) along with MFL

“feedback” form. (Note 3).

I

HIC provides MFL with
appropriate feedback.

© Royal Mail 2012 - 3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 6 of 8
Change Control

POL00122588
POL00122588

Status

Final

Version

1.0

Owner

Ray Pratt

Author

Michael F Matthews

Release Date

January 2012

Document Privacy

Internal

Authorisation

Title Name

Signature Date

Security Ray Pratt

Jan 2012

Distribution List

Name

Version Date

All Royal Mail Security via Security
Sharepoint

V1 January 2012

Documentation History

Issue V1

Status Final

Release Date Jan 2012

Effective From Jan 2012

Document Change History

Issue / Version

Summary of Change

V1

Document Produced

Glossary

Abbreviation or Term

Meaning

RMS

Royal Mail Security

POL00122588
POL00122588

MFL Manlove Forensics Ltd

Hol Head of Investigation

SIM Senior Investigation Manager
ESDA Electrostatic Detection Apparatus
P&S Procedures and Standards

PSO Prosecution Support Office

lic Investigator in the Case

sD Special Delivery

PO Purchase Order

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston St
LONDON

SW1W 9LT

Postline:

STD:
E mail

© Royal Mail 2012 - 3..1 Forensic Services RM V1.0 ~ Page 8 of 8
