POL00058254
POL00058254

(Musa Patels

Solicitors
Commissioners for Oaths

Our REF AN/CP646/Ishaq
YOUR REF:
MS2/24676 ; ;
WHEN CALLING ASK FOR: on
Dare Mr Arfaq Nabi Bs
29" August 2012

E
N W: sermon
Cartwright King Solicitors 5 DX: 23371 Dewsbury
DX700895 Derby 4
Emeraency. Teli...
Dear Sirs WY

Re: Khayyam Ishaq Bradford Crown Court 4" September 2012
We write with reference to the above.
We enclose herewith Defence Statement prepared for our above named client.
Also with regards to the Rule 5 witness requirements, please be on notice we require the
following witnesses to give evidence:

e Umar Liaquat

e Kathleen Smith

Stephen Bradshaw

e Equivalent of Officer in the case if different from the above.

Should you have any questions or queries, please do not hesitate to contact us.

Yours faithfully

Musa Patels Solicitors

afc Service PARTNERS: ASSOCIATES: Ashraf Esat L0.8 (Hons)
Musa Ahmed Patel 1.5 (Hons) ‘Arfaq Nabi 84 (Hons) Conveyancing Executive
q Solicitor-Advocate* Solicitor Peter Furness,
Aquauiry service Zafar Iqbal L1.8 (Hons) Tasleem Haji 850 ¢Hons) Accredited Police station Consultant
esc acy ‘SOlicitor-Advocate* Solicitor Mohammed Loonat
: Anastasis-Taseu-s+-<iore) Conveyancing Executive
“@°: mo ae, SolickorAdveccte”
Vio, 7 t Goneyancng * Higher Courts Criminal
pd tigation Yahya Seedat (1.6 (Hons)

VHC Accredited Solietor Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, SRA No. 79335,
POL00058254

POL00058254

IN THE BRADFORD CROWN COURT

REGINA
-V-

KHAYYAM ISHAQ

DEFENCE CASE STATEMENT

1. This Defence Case Statement sets out in general terms the defence of Khayyam
Ishaq and the principal matters upon which issue is taken with the Crown. It is served

for no other purpose.

2. Nothing in this Defence Case Statement should be taken as constituting an
admission as defined in Section 10 of the Criminal Justice Act 1967. No admission is
made in respect of any matters or any assertion in the Prosecution case except where

there are specific statements to the contrary in this document.

3. The Defendant reserves the right to challenge the admissibility of any material
referred to in the Prosecution evidence. The Defendant further reserves the right to
amend the Defence Case Statement upon disclosure of additional evidence or if

further issues arise from material already served or served in the future.

4. Any failure to refer in this Defence Case Statement to the matters set out in the
Prosecution evidence should not be taken as an agreement or acceptance of any such

matter.
5. It is the defence contention at the outset that upon the limited material served by
the Crown to support the prosecution case, that the prosecution case is unclear most

particularly in relation to the manner by which the figure of £21,168.84 is quantified.

General nature of the defence case.
6. The Defendant is charged with theft of £21,168.64 contrary to Section 1(1) of the

Theft Act 1968.

7. The nature of the Defence in relation to this allegation is :

(i) There was no appropriation of monies. The Post Office “Horizon” software /
hardware system had in the past on numerous occasions malfunctioned causing
difficulties in reconciling sales, receipt and stock figures. The Defendant had
reported the same to the Post Office helpline seeking assistance but little or no

successful assistance was afforded to him despite the said requests.

(ii) The Defendant had of necessity to make certain adjustments by way of
“reversals” on the Horizon system so as to ensure the sales, receipt and stock
figures reconciled. This was done on the basis of clear malfunctioning of the
system (and in accordance with the limited training given to the Defendant by the
Post Office in the past with very limited support thereafter) and not in order to

appropriate any sums of money.

(iii) Accordingly there was no dishonest or otherwise appropriation of property

and/or monies belonging to the Post Office.

(iv) The defendant contends that upon all core data from the Horizon hardware /
software system (used by the Post Office Auditors) being provided to him the
defence should be able to demonstrate that all sales, receipt and stock figures

properly reconcile.

POL00058254
POL00058254
8.

The defendant accordingly denies that he was a party to any theft that may be

proved by the prosecution.

9.

The defendant takes issue with each and every prosecution witness that asserts

otherwise than the defence outlined above.

10. The defence requires disclosure of all material in the hands of the prosecution

and/or third parties (cited herein or otherwise) pursuant to the provisions of the

Attorney General's Guidelines on Disclosure (as revised) that might reasonably assist

the defence of Khayyam Ishaq and/or might reasonably undermine the prosecution

case against him.

11. Without prejudice to the foregoing the Defence specifically request :

The full file of papers relating to this investigation (as the paginated papers
served upon the defence to support the prosecution are clearly a small extract
of the full file of papers relating to this case) ;

All material to the knowledge of the prosecution in existence (whether in the
hands of the prosecution or third parties) that reasonably supports (or is
reasonably capable of supporting) the contention that the Post Office Horizon
software / hardware system has proved to be unreliable and/or inaccurate
and/or unstable and/or susceptible to malfunction and/or otherwise prone to the
production of erroneous results ;

The outcome of all enquiries in relation to other Post Office Staff and/or
contractors who have been the subject of investigation by the Post Office or
any other investigative body in relation to allegations of dishonesty related to
the use of Post Office Horizon hardware / software ;

The full results (whether provisional or final) of all internal and/or external
investigations and/or enquiries and/or reviews (whether instigated by the Post
Office or any other body) into the correct functioning of the Post Office Horizon
hardware / software system ;

POL00058254
POL00058254
POL00058254
POL00058254

v. Any internal memoranda and/or guidance notes and/or other material dealing
with the correct or incorrect functioning of the Post Office Horizon hardware /

software system ;

vi. All Horizon system data for the period 2° November 2011 to 31% January 2012
used to produce exhibit SB/21 ;

vii. An indication of the actual Horizon system data as would have been visible to
the Defendant showing sales of stamps on dates referred to in Stephen
Bradshaw's statement (Pages 17 to 21) and subsequent reversals referred to

therein.

viii. I The original signed statement of Umair Liaqat

This defence statement has been read and approved by me.

hayyam Ishaq)

