POL00405605

POL00405605

From: Kendra Dickinson[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KENDRA.DICKINSON7E55E45B-3F 3E-4B3B-
956A-982062B37CB8]

Sent: Tue 17/05/2011 9:08:42 PM (UTC)

To: J

Subject: FW: Penzance PO - Mrs Tenbeth - update and action proposals

Regards

heendra

Kendra Dickinson
Relationship Manager
Service Management
Post Office Ltd

"Keeping effective channels to market open both today and tomorrow"

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use,
disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original
message.

From: Rod Ismay

Sent: 11 May 2011 15:06

To: Matthew L Hibbard; Dave Hulbert; Kendra Dickinson; Sue Huggins; Jackie Meylak
Subject: Penzance PO - Mrs Tenbeth - update and action proposals

Dear all — I have just spoken to Catherine Gee, the Branch Manager who has confirmed that the customer incident has
now been resolved. I have left messages with each of you so please don't pursue this case further. But there are
some comms we need to do from it I think. Please also see the confirmation from Jackie Meylak who has also spoken
to the branch.

What happened at Penzance?

On Monday, an elderly customer who goes on holiday tomorrow (Thursday) tried to withdraw her account balance
(over £500) from her Instant Saver account. The system failed and Horizon didn’t show a transaction. I believe this
will be a matter related to the UK -wide LINK network issue earlier this week where most banks and ATM providers
had issues of customer accounts being debited but no point of sale transaction completed and hence no money
actually handed over. LINK have publicly said they are working with the banks to clean up the consequences, but as
Catherine rightly says she had a Post Office customer needing an answer and no one was able to help her when she
rang up for help.

What did the branch do?

They made a few calls and were broadly told “it’s a LINK issue and we can’t help”. Catherine eventually rang POFS
Customer Care who said they would do a BACS transfer from their accounts to the customers account to rectify it.
They would then sort out any extra corrections needed with LINK when LINK themselves sort the UK wide incident out.

Suggested actions we need to take on the back of this
POL00405605
POL00405605

1. Comms about the UK wide LINK incident. What happened and how customer's accounts will be rectified.
Our customers, our branches and our support teams need to be clear about this.

2. NBSC scripting to deal with the previous bureau incident — there is a script now (to seek a credit card
payment and get a copy statement to refund the customer) but my conversation with Penzance reveals a typical
issue that branches either don’t ring NBSC, if they do they may not articulate the exact incident, or NBSC don't
have the response for them.

3. NBSC scripting to deal with the LINK incident — goes back to point 1

4. Solution for customers without credit cards (if the earlier bureau incident happened, not the LINK incident) —
need a process here.

5. Single point of contact clarity — to avoid branches seeing ringing Kevin as the only solution

Matt and Dave — please could you speak together in terms of the points above and suggest appropriate comms and
channels.

Thanks, Rod

Rod Ismay - Head of Product & Branch Accounting, Finance
Post Offic: re Walk, West Bars, Chesterfield, S49 1PF
Telephone.

From: Jackie Meylak

Sent: 11 May 2011 14:55

To: Kevin Gilliland

Cc: Sue Huggins; Rod Ismay
Subject: Penzance PO - Mrs Tenbeth

Sue - I took a call this afternoon from the branch manager at Penzance - the problem has just been rectified but
thought I would copy you in for information.

Background to th

wanted to withdraw the balance on her IS account of £566 but was the transaction
\draw £500 but now the balance was showing as 0. The branch got through to the
customer care financial services team who said there was a known problem with Link and that it would be resolved.
Tuesday was the same scenario with a lady called Beth at customer care team saying that the 0 balances problem had
been resolved. By now the customer had also emailed the team and rang them again today and was told that there
would be a possibility of a chaps transfer by 4pm today. Customer due to travel to Cyprus tomorrow.

The branch manager is Catherine Gee { > She rang because she desperately wanted to help the
customer and remembered Kevin's similar story from the event at Birmingham.

Thanks

Jackie Meylak
Personal Assistant to Kevin Gilliland
Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, Bunhill Row Wing,

148 Old Street,

London, EC1V HQ
POL00405605
POL00405605

Royal Mail Group's charity of choice is Barnardo's. Please visit the following website to find out how you can make a
difference: www.royalmailgroupcharity.com

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
