POL00128997
POL00128997

From: Jarnail A Singhf” -

Sent: Tue 20/08/2013 9:00:16 AM (UTC)

To:

Subject: RE: Regular Call re Horizon Issues
Thanks Rob

The point is and which is also Susan concern that it is important the issues raised at Wednesday mornings meeting
are nailed down issue by issue. The issue is raised hunted down concluded and documented in central place where it
can be accessed by security and legal.

Jarnail Singh I Criminal Lawyer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

Post Office stories

@postofficenews

©OB8@®eOO®

From: Rob King

Sent: 19 August 2013 19:08

To: Jarnail A Singh

Subject: Fw: Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Jarnail,

Apologies if I seemed a little evasive earlier. To date I have worked to the remit of establishing a group whereby
issues and concerns are raised and recorded (see below). However with a initial mandate of not circulating notes
made, it is difficult to apply the usual governance on the process. Notes have been typed, actions captured and will be
circulated. This should provide the proper framework for resolving issues. I was under the impression that a working
group would be set up to deal with these, placing the weekly conference call superfluous. Investigators have been
instructed to report back any issues raised during interview. These will be fed through to legal and a record made of
them. I still maintain that security is not the best place though to resolve issues with the Horizon system. As you know
John Scott is chairing this con call going forward. It may be useful if you rely to John, Susans concerns. Speak
tomorrow

Regards

Rob

From: Dave Posnett
Sent: Friday, August 16, 2013 11:02 AM

To: andrew.parsons:
Cc: Rob King

POL00128997
POL00128997

Subject: Regular Call re Horizon Issues
Andy,

We discussed the imbedding of notes from the weekly Horizon issues meeting into the matrix held by
Rosie.

It was agreed that this wouldn’t be the right format and that you would create an independent spreadsheet,
whereby the notes could be added each week and circulated to attendees each week before the
conference calls (so the spreadsheet would include all meeting notes, not just the most recent meeting).
As such, please find associated all notes that I or Security colleagues have collated (they are all password
protected ... let me know if you don’t have the password).

I would be grateful if you could instigate the spreadsheet and circulation to attendees.

For reference I list below all those who should attend the weekly meeting and/or substitutes should anyone
be unavailable ... please add if you know of other names.
Could I ask that at the top of the spreadsheet the following is copied/pasted or similar:

The following details the participants of the weekly ‘Regular Call re Horizon Issues’ (Wednesdays @
10.00am). Regular attendees from each team/function are responsible for ensuring a representative is

present.
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Rodric Williams, Jarnail Singh, Andrew Parsons, Marti
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay, Andrew Winn
Security Dave Posnett, Rob King, John M Scott
Communications Sophie Bialaszewski, Ruth X Barker
Network Nick Beal, Gayle A Peacock
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) Steve Beddoe, Jeff Burke
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson

NB: Other than yourself and Martin, all should ha email addresses. Not sure if you
have everyone’s email address so I’ve also put initials AbOVE in People’s names where applicable ... let me
know if there’s any problems.

Many thanks.

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

