POL00044916
POL00044916

IBSTOCK
Mr. Alan Cook MD POST
Post Office Ltd a 2
80-86 Old Street OFFICE
London
ECIV 9NN
25/02/2009.

Strictly Private, Confidential and Without Prejudice.

Dear Alan

Suspension - 20" August 2008 — Ibstock Post Office — Fad 223 217 0.

On Wednesday 20" August 2008 I was suspended from my post as Sub-Postmaster
because their was a shortage in the Post Office accounts of £44,000. After investigations
had been concluded by Post Office Investigations Bureau I was reinstated to my post as
Sub-Postmaster on Wednesday 12" November 2008.

The outcome of those investigations revealed that my wife Susan Jane Rudkin had lost
control of the business and reported incorrect financial figures to the Post Office
Accounts and confirmed this to the Post Office Ltd Audits and Investigation Bureau in
her statement.

Post Office Ltd have been magnanimous in understanding that I personally played no part
or had any prior knowledge of my wife’s mistakes with the Post Office accounts. I am
also aware of how strong the representations have been on my behalf from members of
your staff the NFSP and George Thomson General Secretary of the NFSP of which I am
extremely grateful.

With hindsight events have revealed that I have a weakness and I have enjoyed the
intellectual stimulus of the negotiations between POL and my participation in those
consultations as a former Executive Officer of the NFSP. At the same time I have thrust
upon my wife the burden of trying to keep the business running and a home together.
With the benefit of hindsight I may have neglected her.

Furthermore little did I know that since the robbery of 2006 she has been suffering from i
depression and sleep deprivation which has culminated in Susan having a breakdown all
of which I was oblivious to until a member of POL audits pointed it out by which time
the damage had been done.

POL00044916
POL00044916

In some respects I may be deemed as being negligent by indulging in the academic
debates, consultations between the NFSP and POL senior negotiating team in London
and I did not see what was happening back home.

Susan is not only remorseful but has spoken of taking her life on no less than two
occasions sighting the disgrace and shame she has thrust upon me and how she has
destroyed any and all ambitions I may have had of being able to continue serving my
beloved mistresses POL and the NFSP. Thankfully I have been supported by Andrew
Gilhooly (EO) who has a tremendous amount of experience with theses type of cases as a
former civil servant.

I must recognize and thank Doctor Sack our family GP, he has been extremely concerned
as to Susan’s mental health throughout this ordeal and he has arranged for Susan to have
ongoing counseling from the practice psychologist who is jointly treating Susan.

T appeal to you as a Husband, a Father and a Sub-Postmaster, my letter to you Alan is in
no way an attempt to pervert the course of justice but it would be remiss of me as a
husband who has failed his wife already on one occasion not to make an appeal directly
to you Alan and the Board of Directors to suspend/withdraw from prosecuting wife Susan
Jane Rudkin.

To date I have lost income of £21,000 from salary due to my suspension and I have made
arrangements to pay back to POL there losses through salary which has commenced. My
request is for clemency and compassion for my wife, suspend/stop this action she is and
has suffered enough without further disgrace or the loss of her Liberty as a result of being
prosecuted, her first hearing before the magistrates is Friday 13" March 2009. The Royal
Mail Group legal team has a restraining/confiscation order on my premises so restitution
is ultimately assured.

Ihave accepted the collective responsibility for what has happened and I neither wish to
see my wife prosecuted nor do I wish to see my mistress (POL) in the headlines once
more of the press and damaging her reputation. I

I know in some respects my requests are selfish Alan but this is a terrible burden to carry
and I am seeking that final act of compassion if it is not too late, the business has the
power to help a family rebuild itself.

Assuring you of my best attention at all times.

poe Monae Sianaawalennn

GRO ee

I L §2 chen fo Aticbole ~ sho cal! ola I
Lathe vn bird LAN Nore pean
- if fH rertly want © Sig
Peaonotly ~ tA me en I

Calewse leant ai the WOT

