POL00094285
POL00094285

Eunlce Kirby To: Michele Graves/e/POSTOFFICE).
ce:
01/09/2009 11:01 Subject: Fw: New cases

Eunlce Kirby ~
Executive Correspondence Advisor
Executive Correspondence Team Network
Post Office Ltd

Confidential Information:

This email message Is for the sole use of the intended
reciplent(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
Information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution Is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the
original message.

--—— Forwarded by Eunice Kirby/e/POSTOFFICE on 01/09/2009 11:01 -—-

wrerynyyrrrer Tahira Rasool To: EC Team
. ce:
28/08/2009 10:33 Subject: New cases
Val -
Imran Patel -

Talks about the differential currency rates offered to offices. We already know this is done to take
account of local competition and is not a form of discrimination. Mr Patel wants to know why this
seems to be acceptable as we should be trading as one organisation.

The effect he claims is that his customers feel they are being undersold, and so as a STEP office, this
is impacting his ability to sell other products. This is having an effect on morale.

I will send a separate email re the STEP Programme for info.

Can you email David Glynn and cc Roger Gale.

From the point of view that this office is a STEP office, can you ask David if could consider calling Mr
Patel to discuss his concerns. Alan is away next week, and did not feel that it would be appropriate for
him to doa conference call with Mr Patel

can David keep us in the loop for reference purposes should Alan wish to have an update upon his
returm.

Val can you get the ball rolling for Kay

Loughton MP - Expert to sign

Concerns re the opening hours of the PO. Head of....Paul M Brown
send under the NDM process.

Janet can you send for actioning on behalf of Eunice . Michele is happy to put the response together,
but just needs some digging to be done.
Michael Rudkin

POL00094285
POL00094285

There is a history with this case FCT 728/08
Wife was prosecuted for theft of over £44k.

You will see form the further info tab, the case was a Prosecution & Confiscation case with a

Confiscation hearing w/b 17/8/09.

Can you speak to John Scott on security and ask him what happened during this hearing and what

was the final outcome from Security point of view.
For our understanding, what is a confiscation case.

Also in reference to his penultimate para, we will of course back with the explanation that every case
id looked at individually, but can John offer any guidance on how we evaluate a case to be taken down
the prosecution lines. This was a big loss, and although his suggestion seems extraordinary, Alan will
want to address our commitment to looking at every case on its own "merits" (if that is the right word).

Tahira Rasool ~
Executive Correspondence Team Leader &
Post Office Limited

_5th Floor, 80 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V SNN

2
a
s
s
3B
e

Confidential Information:
This email message is for the sole use of the intended
reciplent(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution Is prohibited. If you are not the Intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all coples of the
original message.

