POL00097745
POL00097745

Message
From: Jenkins Gareth Gl [o_
Sent: 20/03/2013 10:01:02
To: Ivan Swepson
cc: i ; Dave Posnett
; Craig Tuthill
‘od Ismay
Subject: tly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Not for Wider Circulation

Attachments: image003.png; image004.png; image005.png; image006.png; image007.png; image008.jpg;
DESAPPHLD0083v1.1.Counter.Recovery.doc; HorizonOnlineDatalntegrity_POL.doc;
ARCGENREPO004.HorizonDatalntegrity.doc

ivan,

{have already done some investigation in this case as a result of an enquiry from Helen Rose in January, so I have the
main facts already to hand.

I would expect to be able to put something together to share with Andy within the next week {ie before Easter).
In the meantime there may be something that could be shared with Second Sight:

We have a Design Document on Horizon Online Recovery which may be appropriate to pass to Second Sight. All Horizon
Online Design documents are freely available to Post Office Ltd, so I think it is POL’s decision as to whether it should be
passed to Second Sight. I attach that document (DES/APP/HLD/0083) so you can consider if you want to pass it across to
Second Sight immediately. The key aspects are summarised in a paper entitled Horizon Online Data Integrity for Post
Office Ltd which I have already given to Second Sight and have also exhibited as evidence in a number of court cases. I
would have thought that this would meet Second Sight’s requirements as far as Horizon Online is concerned. There is an
equivalent paper (Horizon Data integrity) that covers the old Riposte based Horizon system (also sent to Second

Sight}. However that doesn’t go into much detail on Recovery. I don’t think there are simple documents on that, but I
could probably put together a summary paper if really necessary.

Regards

Gareth

Gareth Jenkins
Distinguished Engineer
Business Applications Architect
Post Office Account

FUJITSU

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

ent - do you really need to print this email?

wea Please consider the envi

POL-0097328
POL00097745
POL00097745

From: Ivan Swepson
Sent: 20 March 2013 08:48
To: Jenkins Gareth GI

Cc: Simon Baker; Alison Bolsover; Dave Posnett; Rodric Williams; Craig Tuthill; Andrew Winn; Rod Ismay
Subject: RE: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Sensitivity: Confidential

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege —- Not for Wider Circulation

Gareth,
Further to my email yesterday Simon Baker has asked if you would lead on the response to this SR please in
light of its’ emphasis on Horizon functionality in response to power and comms failures. Andy Winn will

provide input on the operational procedures given to SPMRs and specifically how POL handled this dispute.

How long do you think you will require for first draft (given Easter coming up) so I can make a note on the
Tracker?

Many thanks, Ivan

Ivan Swepson I IT Separation Programme Office, IT&C

ae ’ Floor Bunhill Wing, 148 Old Street, LONDON ECIV 9HQ

From: Ivan Swepson

Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 2:44 PM

To: Craig Tuthill; gareth jenkins (Gareth.Jenkins¢
Cc: Simon Baker; Alison Bolsover; Dave Posnett; Rodric Williams

Subject: SROO1 - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation
Sensitivity: Confidential

; Andrew Winn; Rod Ismay

Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Further to Simon’s email below:

1. Andy, will you take the lead again please on the draft response with input from Gareth (words and
flowchart) on Horizon operational design for power and comms failures. How long will you require for
first draft (given Easter coming up) so I can make a note on the Tracker?

2. Who is best placed to enable and facilitate the Horizon testing requested by Second Sight? I suggest
we need suitable access to a Horizon terminal but I also think we ought to ask for a test plan so we can
see the number and type of tests to be done to ensure a) the approach is robust (from a system testing
point of view) and b) the environment is correctly configured and support to enable the testing.

Thanks, Ivan

POL-0097328
POL00097745
POL00097745

Ivan Swepson [IT Separation Programme Office, IT&C

From: Simon Baker

Sent: Tuesday, March 19, 2013 1:05 PM

To: Craig Tuthill; Dave Posnett; gareth jenkins (Gareth.Jenkins
Ismay; Alison Bolsover

Subject: FW: Various items

Sensiti : Confidential

Ivan Swepson; Andrew Winn; Rod

All

Please find attached the next spot review. Also some comments below on what lan expects us to include in our
response.

Regards, Simon

From: Ian Henderson [mailto:irh¢
Sent: 19 March 2013 12:14 .
To: Simon Baker

Cc: ‘Ron Warmington’; Susan Crichton
Subject: Various items

Sensitivity: Confidential

Simon
This is a general catch up on a number of issues:

1. I attach Spot Review SROO1.docx which is the John Armstrong case we discussed on the last call

2. The main issue in SROO1 is the automated and largely silent recovery process which occurs when Horizon
detects either a power or a communications failure. Can you ask Fujitsu to provide us with a clear written
description, including flowcharts, of how this is designed to operate for both old and new Horizon?

3. Tied in to the above, we would like to run some tests on a live Horizon terminal (possibly a training terminal)
when we execute various types of transaction and at the same time cut the power or the internet connection.
We will then observe and analyse the recovery process. It will be important that the terminal being used is a
close to a live system as is possible. I assume the training office terminal in your building will be the best place to
do this, however we will probably need to book this for a number of sessions. Will this be possible?

Many thanks. I look forward to seeing you on Thursday afternoon
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

POL-0097328
POL00097745
POL00097745

UK Mobile: GRO i

Website: http://advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confidential

If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at irht
delete the email and any attachments.

ivileged.
and

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JOH IO SGI IOUS AIO IOI ROI ADIOS SIDI SOU II DDD AI

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-
free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.

POL-0097328
