POL00044758
POL00044758

Thank you for your letter of 17 October 2008 conceming your former appointment
as Subpostmaster, Astwood Bank Post Office®. Please accept my sincere apologies
for the delay in replying to your letter.

On 11 September 2008 an audit was undertaken at Astwood Bank Post Office®
and this revealed a shortage of EXXXXXX in the branch account. You were
subsequently precautionary suspended in line with business procedure pending
further investigation. Post Office Ltd has a conduct code which is followed in these
circumstances which has been agreed with the National Federation of
Subpostmasters, a body recognised by Post Office Ltd as representing the views of
Subpostmasters.

The conduct code, where a breach of the Subpostmasters contract for services has
been identified, allows the Subpostmaster to respond to that charge by either
attending an interview, called a reason to urge interview, or by providing written
representation. Should the Subpostmaster opt for an interview the Subpostmaster
can be accompanied at the interview by a fellow Subpostmaster, a registered post
office® assistant or a Post Office Ltd employee. Following the decision to issue you
with a precautionary suspension you subsequently took advice from your
representative of the National Federation of Subpostmasters, after which you
decided to tender your resignation as Subpostmaster, Astwood Bank Post Office®.
This was effective from the date of your suspension on 11 September 2008. In
view of this, you were not invited to attend an interview or put forward a written
submission in line with the above process.

With regard to your concerns over the frequency of audits undertaken at Post
Office® branches, I can confirm that Post Office Ltd plans audits using a risk based
model which utilises a wide variety of information. Taking into account the size of
the Post Office® network this hetps to ensure that any audit activity is targeted
effectively using the resources which are available to us.

In respect of your comment regarding the suspension of your ‘pay’, I feel it
appropriate to remind you that as a former agent of Past Office Ltd you were not
an employee of the organisation and as such you received a remuneration for the
provision of Post Office® services provided at the branch.

Cont/
POL00044758
POL00044758

I also note your belief that there are systematic problems with the Horizon
computerised accounting system in use within the Post Office® network. I can
assure you that in terms of the integrity of the Horizon accounting system Post
Office Ltd has been using this system now for the past nine years. During that time
it has been tested in both the criminal and civil courts and has not found to be

wanting.

With regard to the on-going training provided at Post Office branches, taking into
account the size of the Post Office® network and from a purely logistical point of
view it is necessary for the majority of the on-going training provided to
Subpostmasters to be either paper based or delivered electronically via the Horizon
computerised accounting system. However, Subpostmasters are encouraged to
contact the Network Business Support Centre Helpline if they have any queries or
need further assistance on any training issues. Following a call to the
aforementioned Helpline, additional on-site training can be arranged as necessary.

I have also noted your comment that you appear to be in disagreement with the
current Temporary Subpostmaster over the processing of National Lottery business
on the private retail side of your business. Please be advised that any rental
agreement that exists between you and the current Temporary Subpostmaster is a
private matter and one which does not fall within the domain of Post Office Ltd.

Finally, if your branch had shown a £27,000 surplus in the account, then under the
current guidelines you would have had the option of either a) withdrawing the
amount or b) settling the amount centrally with Chesterfield in anticipation of
receiving a compensating Transaction Correction.

I trust I have helped to answer the queries that you raised.

Yours sincerely

Glenn Chester
Contract Manager
