POL00338494
POL00338494

Message

From: Mike Granville [/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=MIKE.GRANVILLEF9CC547D-14F1-4BFB-AE89-5C28E92235C3]
Sent: 18/11/2011 1.
To: Mike Young
ce: Rod Ismay }
Subject: Parliamentary Questions about Horizon
Attachments: Mike Weir response2.doc

Mike,

We are currently putting together a draft reply to a number of PQ’s raised by Mike Weir MP about Horizon. They are
questions that the Minister has deemed to be ‘operational matters’ and he has referred the through for Paula to reply. We
will need probably to get a reply away next week in answer to these questions. The reply we give will be lodged in the
House and will effectively be public domain

The questions parallel separate ones that we have had in a Freedom of Information request (that is probably linked to
JFSA). We are also aware the BBC is interested in the answer that will be given to this PQ with respect to their
prospective Inside Out documentary in the East. Finally Shoosmiths are no doubt looking at all of this with interest re their
current letters before claim. The various strands all seem to be linked.

I'm sending over the current draft therefore so that you are aware of the overall approach being suggested to this PQ. It is
a long response because it is seeking to establish the overall context and give the full overall picture — and there are data
gaps in it at present where Rod is seeking information.

Please can I ask you to have a look at the draft and ask if you have any input or comment about it (particularly whether
there are any further technical aspects of the system that we should highlight — a particular area would be whether we
could quote a number of technical ‘accreditations’ that will help support the concept that this is industry standard.

When the data is input, the final draft will need to do the rounds of Group Comms, Legal, Finance and Network before
Paula signs off — but I’m sure that Paula will seek your view early on the final copy that is put before her — and therefore I
though it worthwhile that you could see it in its current state.

Please could I therefore ask if you could take a look and let Rod and I know if there are any comments/ suggestions.

Thanks

Mike

Mike Granville
Head of Stakeholder Relations

Post Office Ltd

