POL00121518
POLO0121518

Investigation Policy Page 1
Appendix 6
OFFENDER REPORTS
1, PURPOSE
The aim of this policy is to set out the standard format for offender reports by Security Managers.
2. LINK TO ACCOUNTABILITIES
Security Managers
3. POLICY
3.1 PREAMBLE
(SIMS project/investigation
numbers)
OFFENCE (specify,
e Name: (Forenames in full then surname) Identification Code:
e Rank:
© Office: FAD Code: (Post Office Ltd. cases only)
© Age: DOB:
© Service: Date Service Commenced:
© Personnel Record: At Appendix (B or C)
«Nat Ins No:
* Home Address:
e Suspended from duty/Interviewed: (date) on the authority of (managers name)
© Court Jurisdiction:
Where an offender is handed into custody, the preamble should continue as follows:-
© Handed into custody: (Date & name/rank of authorising officer)
e At (Name of Police Station)
e Charged: To appear at (time) on (date) at (Court)
© Tobe Prosecuted by: Royal Mail Group (including Post Office Limited) /Crown Prosecutor
e Designated Prosecution
Authority: (Full name, position and address of manager responsible for authority)
e Discipline Manager: (Full name, position and address of manager responsible for conduct)
Policy Title Offender Reports
Version 5.0
Date February 2003

POL00121518

POLO0121518

Investigation Policy Page 2

Appendix 6

¢ For Sub Postmasters - use ‘Position’ instead of ‘Rank’ and ‘Contract for services
suspended’ instead of ‘Suspended from duty”.

¢ For Non-Royal Mail Group or Post Office Limited Offenders, amend headings accordingly

¢ CRO details should be placed in a sealed envelope and enclosed in an Appendix.

3.2 STANDARD REPORT FORMAT

The offender report must be addressed to our Legal Services. This will ensure Client
Confidentiality status.

The header and footer must read CONFIDENTIAL (preceded by relevant BU — eg. ROYAL
MAIL CONFIDENTIAL).

Particulars of the suspected offence/incident and how it came to notice. In unusual cases the actual
operational procedures in force at the office should be described for the benefit of Legal Services.
Avoid unexplained acronyms and jargon.

Details of enquiries conducted including loss analysis, observation etc.

Details of any testing operation to include basis for suspicion, testing authority given, record of
tests and results of testing operations.

Details of suspect’s interview to include specific admissions/denials, total amounts and period of
offences.

Give an assessment of the evidence available to support charges.

Provide details of domestic circumstances and finances, if known. Give any mitigating
circumstances, which may need to be considered when deciding legal action.

Detail failures in security, supervision of procedures which were established during the interview
to be a contributory factor to the commission of the offence/s. (i.e. the suspect volunteers
knowledge of the failure and admits taking advantage)

Report amount of any loss to Royal Mail Group/Post Office Limited funds, incurred as a result of
admitted offences and how calculated, and detail any money or property recovered during the
enquiry. Other losses than those to Royal Mail Group/Post Office Limited (i.e. members of the
public) should be detailed so that compensation can be considered.

Report any outstanding accounting aspects; amounts to be made good: compensation to be paid;
moneys, documents or other articles due to be returned to owners or other departments when the
case has been finalised.

Any other matters not listed above which are substantiated and relevant to the case but which are
not sensitive.

4, Links to other reference material (policies, processes and procedures, etc.)
Title Author Located Version Type Policy No.
4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
Se Document details
Policy Title Offender Reports
Version 5.0
Date February 2003

POL00121518

POLO0121518

Investigation Policy Page 3

Appendix 6

5.1 I Author : Corporate Security

5.2. I Owner: Head of Policy & Performance, Corporate Security

5.3 I Audience: Security Community

5.4 Enquiry point : Programme Manager, Law & Legislation, Corporate Security,
4" Floor, Impact House, 2 Edridge Road, CROYDON, CR9 1PJ

5.5 Effective from : March 2003

5.6 Review date : February 2004

5.7 Last updated : February 2003

6. Assurance Details:

6.1 I Name: Tony Utting

6.2 Business Unit: Post Office Limited

6.3 Assurance Date: February 2003

7. Final Review

7.1 I Approved by John Messenger

7.2 Documented (Hard Copy) YES/NO Location:

7.3 “ (Electronic) YES/NO Location:

Policy Title Offender Reports

Version 5.0

Date February 2003
