POL00167136
POL00167136

From: John Longmi
Sent: Mon 01/02/2010 3:52:00 PM (UTC)
To: warwicktatford”

j; Jarnail A

Singh_
Subject: Fw: West Byfleet
Attachment: pic28034.gif
Attachment: pic16239.gif
Attachment: 9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report 19.11.09DkResponse.doc

Warwick/Jarnail
Please see Dave King's responses in blue on the attachment.

Dave is going to try and find out who could provide witness statements to these answers as he feels that they
should come from different departments. This could cause problems with meeting the deadline for disclosure.

Regards,
Jon Longman

Seaurity Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Sequrity Team

2 OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, Ascot Road, Watford, WD18 BAA
ee LAND LINE PHONE: word...

mone f ERO) rae iTnews 603!

«Stop the ci

confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.
if you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mailand destroy all copies of the original message.
?? Please consider the environrnent before printing this e-mail

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain E

----- Forwarded by John Longman/e/POSTOFFICE on 01/02/2010 15:34 -----

To: John
Dave M King Longman/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
ce: Jason G
01/02/2010 13:42 Collins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Andy
Hayward/e/POSTOFFICE@POS TOFFICE
Subject: Re: Fw: West Byfleet

Jon

I've had a look at the report and added my comments. Perhaps you would like to have a look through and then
give me a call?

(See attached file: 9c15.misra - 2nd interim technical expert's report 19.11.09DkResponse.doc)
POL00167136
POL00167136

To be honest, there's nothing in this report other than a general scattering of possible issues (true of any system
where people are using it) without any evidence that these are present in Horizon. Despite the expert being an IT
consultant, there is nothing substantial in the report about the IT, it all boils down to errors through lack of
training/experience/ability if anything and that is quite firmly down to the Agent.

T would be happy to talk to you or Counsel about the case, but suspect witness statements would need to come
from Fujitsu, Network and P&BA as I've tried to indicate in my comments. Whatever else, I think you would
need to get hold of the system logs for the period in question and look to see whether there had been any failed
card transactions that may then have been settled to cash.

Always assuming this isn't just a straightforward case of cash being taken from the till, which no amount of
examining logs will tell you.

Hope this helps
Thanks

Dave King
Security Architect

B&yohn Longman

John Longman To: Dave M King/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
ce!

01/02/2010 08:48 Subject: Fw: West Byfleet

Dave

I understand that you met with my Line Manager, Jason Collins last week regarding the request from a defence
expert report whereby somebody in Post Office Ltd needs to respond to some technical questions by way of a
witness statement. The barrister dealing with the case on behalf of Post Office Ltd has now asked for a response
to the outstanding questions by the end of this week.

Jason has e-mailed me and said that it may be best if I contact you to get an update, hence this e-mail.
POL00167136
POL00167136

Regards,
Jon Longrnan

Security Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Security Tearn

(eS) OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, Ascot Road, Watford, nS BAA

\ LAND LINE PHONE: . (al eV Iie A

Pp

confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution Is prohibited.

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain E&
q
if you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mailand destroy all copies of the original message.

John Longman To: Jason G Collins/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE
ce:
01/02/2010 08:37 Subject: West Byfleet

Jason

Our barrister, Warwick Tatford contacted me late on Friday and said he would like a response (witness
statement) from someone in PO Ltd by the end of this week at the latest to the outstanding questions in the
defence experts report that I raised with you. Do we know who is willing in PO Ltd to respond to the questions.

Regards,
Jon Longrnan

Security Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Security Tearn

(eS) OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, Ascot Road, Watford, ns BAA

=~ LAND LINE PHONE: (al eV Iie a4

Pp

confidentialand privileged information, Any unauthorised review, use, disclogure or distribution is prohibited.
if you are not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mailand destroy all copies of the original message.
?? Please consider the environrnent before printing this e-mail

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) and may contain Ee
