POL00189184
POL00189184

To: Parsons, Andrew}
Ce: Hugh Flemington}
Subject: Second Sight Review
Attachment: Raising Concerns with Horizon Document - POL signed 17.12.12.pdf
Attachment: FINAL Concerns with Horizon Document - 17.12.12.doc
Andy,

As discussed, Second Sight will shortly be presenting an interim report to MPs on their investigation (“Inquiry”) into
the Horizon system.

We want to ensure that all concerned are aware of the responses we have given to the issues raised with us during
the Inquiry (including any supporting documentation).

Second Sight has been conducting the Inquiry in line with the “Raising Concerns with Horizon” document (copy
attached in pdf and Word), the Appendix to which sets out the Remit, Conduct and Output of the Inquiry. I draw your
attention to the following extracts from the Appendix section 3. “Establishment and conduct of Inquiry”:

- “Post Office Limited may provide Second Sight with its own comments on any or all concerns, and on Horizon
generally.”

- “Second Sight will consult with JFSA, Post Office Limited, and/or any other party as it considers necessary
before producing any report."

- “Second Sight will consider and take into account any comments received from JFSA, Post Office Limited
and/or any other consulted party....”

- “Second Sight will prepare the report... bearing in mind the primary need to ensure that the report is
reasoned and evidence based.”

Could you please therefore prepare a document referring to Second Sight’s obligations to consider the evidence we
produce in response to the Inquiry, and summarising the responses we have given on 4 specific Spot Reviews sent to
us by Second Sight, i.e. those concerning the Bracknell Test Centre, communication line interruptions to the branch
terminal, remming-in scratch cards, and stamp stock balancing.

Please give me a call if you need to discuss anything further.

Thanks, Rod

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

@ 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

POL00189184

POL00189184
@ Post Office stories
®© @postofficenews

a)

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient, you
must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in error,

please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions expressed within
this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET, LONDON
EC1V 9HQ.
