POL00115665
POL001 15665

From: Dave Posnett{dave.posnettI_
Sent: Thur 29/03/2012 10:21:1

To: Dave Pardoe[dave.pardoe._
Keith Gilchrist[keith.gilchrist,
Collins[jason.g.collins _

Ce: Paul Southin[paul.southin

Subject: Case Compliance

Attachment: Compliance 2012-2013.zip
All,

Myself, Paul and Graham have reviewed the compliance areas for 2012/2013, including the comments and feedback
which you relayed.

Below is the proposed email to be sent out to the team, along with the associated zipped file above.

Could I ask that you check and let me know if anything needs changing or if you have any burning issues.

We will aim to send out in the next few weeks.

All,

The compliance checks on submitted offender interview case files will continue in 2012/2013.

Associated are all the supporting documents needed, which have been amended where appropriate.

I suggest these are referred to when you have time and/or when submitting an offender interview case file.
Some salient points and changes are summarised as follows, to take effect immediately;

* The timescales for submitting case files have increased from 12 working days to 15 working days (as a
maximum). This addresses the current lack of Security Managers, the impact on those assisting (extra
travelling, overnight stays, accrued TOIL, etc). This impact will continue for some time, even when new recruits
are in post. The increase to 15 working days (or 3 working weeks), coupled with continued use of the typing
facility, is considered fair in dealing with the current resource issues.

* Some scores have decreased and some have increased. Areas where there have been prevalent failings or
where it is considered that more importance or emphasis is needed have increased scores, whereas areas
deemed less significant have decreased scores. Please see Appendix 1 (Compliance Form) for all the relevant
scores available in future.

* All references to ‘Royal Mail’ have been replaced with ‘Post Office Ltd’. These include document references,
GS forms becoming POL forms and ‘Royal Mail Group Criminal Law Team’ becoming ‘Post Office Ltd Legal &
Compliance Team’.

* The aim will again be to conduct a minimum of 2 compliance checks per individual and attain a 90% average
score across the team at year end.

* Compliance checks will be lapsed for now and commence at the beginning of July. This will facilitate the
arrival of new recruits and any associated training, but will also provide some flexibility in managing workloads
for those impacted in the next couple of months. This communication has been sent out now to inform you in
advance of the changes in compliance and provide you with the information needed on commencement of
compliance checks.

Dave Posnett
Accredited Financial Investigator
Security Operations Team

@

POL00115665
POL00115665

Post Office Ltd

ie) : 2° Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, ECiV 9HQ.

THINK BEFORE
YOU PRINT

Confidential Information
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
