POL00294761

POL00294761
From: Kevin Gilliland[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP.
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=KEVIN.GILLILAND19520D27-808B-41 12-9FFO-
1E20FFS5AF5B4]
Sent: Thur 17/02/2011 1:46:40 PM (UTC)
To: Angela Van-Den-Bi ~ Peter D
Johnsonf
Ce: Dave S Pettitt{”
Mark Dinsdale}
Subject: Re: Val Athwal

I agree. Thanks angela. The challenge will be what we say in the reply and how we say it. Again we need to be conscious of the
fact that this could well be used as part of the jfsa case.

Kevin Gilliland

Network & Sales Director Post Office Ltd, 148 Old St London EC1V 9HQ

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

To: Kevin Gilliland; Peter D Johnson

Cc: Dave S Pettitt; Mike Granville; Mark Dinsdale
Sent: Thu Feb 17 14:42:57 2011

Subject: RE: Val Athwal

Kevin,

It's interesting to see the list of questions posed by Mt Athwal given that we'd agreed to wipe the slate
clean and move forward. These questions are I believe the same that were posed as an earlier FOI
request. Pete Johnson will be able to provide copies of our earlier responses — Pete could you send me
what you have on this please.

With regard to Mr Athwal’s claim that he does not accept the statement from Fujistu and requests a CD
signed by an Independent IT expert with the experts declaration, we did not agree to this and therefore my
view is we should deny this request on the basis that POL is fully satisfied that the Horizon systems and
the accounting processes around it are robust and fit for purpose. The systems have been subjected to
independently assured testing processes; information security is accredited to industry standards; the
system meets all payment industry standards and there are the necessary checks and balances
throughout the system to ensure its integrity with secure audit logs maintained of all activity. Mike — what’s
you view on this?

Kevin, if you are happy to support this approach once I have Mike’s comments I'll touch base with Jessica
from a legal perspective.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services
Post Office Ltd

1st Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
POL00294761
POL00294761

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Jackie Meylak

Sent: 17 February 2011 10:26

To: Mark Dinsdale; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd

Cc: Dave S Pettitt; Mike Granville; Kevin Gilliland
Subject: Val Athwal

All,
Can we wait until we have spoken to legal first. Angela would you speak to the lawyers please?

Thanks
Kevin

Jackie Meylak

Personal Assistant to Kevin Gilliland
Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, Bunhill Row Wing,

148 Old Street,

London, EC1V HQ

Mobile:/
Mobex:{

Royal Mail Group's charity of choice is Barnardo's. Please visit the following website to find out how you can make a difference:
www.royalmailgroupcharity.com.

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Mark Dinsdale

Sent: 16 February 2011 10:42

To: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Kevin Gilliland

Cc: Dave S Pettitt

Subject: FW:

Angela / Kevin

We have received this letter from Fujitsu in respect of Ferndown.
How would you like it to be dealt with?

I'm happy to sort out the password; these are usually temperamental in that to gain almost 100% strength in the
password, the variation on characters is confusing.

Regards
POL00294761
POL00294761

-Mark Dinsdale...
_ GRO

From: Long Stephen:
Sent: 15 February 20
To: Mark Dinsdale
Cc: Thomas Penny; Wilkerson Guy; Davidson James
Subject:

Dear Mark,
Please see the attached letter from Val Athwal of the Ferndown Post Office.
I am currently drafting a response along the lines of:

e Acknowledging receipt of the letter.
e Requesting that the request for information is directed to Post Office.

I would like to propose a contact at Post Office for Mr. Athwal to redirect his request — could you suggest a useful
recipient please?

Many thanks,
Stephen

Stephen Long

Account Director

Royal Mail Group Business Unit
UK Private Sector

FUJITSU
22 Baker Street, London W1U 3BW

W1U 3BW
