POLO0107912
POL00107912

Message
From:

on behalf of
Sent:

To: Rodric William:
ce: Simon Baker { i __
Subject: Spot Reviews Update - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege — Not for Wider Circulation

Rodric - Is this where we are at the moment?

Simon - Just for info .. you may recall I provide John Scott and cc Rob King
(Senior Security Manager) with updates. Rodric has asked I submit my updates to
him for onward transmission to John and Rob (no doubt proofreading my comments in
the process). Below is my intended update following today’s meeting. Not sure
if you want sight of these (being fully in the loop) .. I won’t copy you in again
unless you specifically request.

John,

An update following Horizon Spot Review meeting Friday and today;

e The first 4 Spot Reviews have now been submitted to 24 Sight after being
signed off by Susan Crichton and Angela Van Den Bogerd. Initial feedback
from 2.4 Sight in relation to our responses has been positive, to such an
extent that they are content for POL to conduct analysis on Horizon data and
report our findings, as opposed to sending data to 2™ Sight for
analysis/comments.

© The working group now have a further 5 Spot Reviews and we are progressing
these. Actions have been allocated and a further face to face meeting of
the working group is planned for Wednesday 22™4 May, in addition to the
weekly conference calls. The intention is to remain consistent and keep
reported findings in the same format as the first 4 Spot Reviews.

e None of the Spot Reviews to date have found specific faults with Horizon,
though in some instances the Horizon data is too old to retrieve and
interrogate. Rather, it seems to be the processes and procedures adopted by
branches that have caused them to think that Horizon was at fault.

* Some of the Spot Reviews appear somewhat lacking in gravity (e.g. selling a
stamp, Horizon freezes and numerous receipts are generated). We are
nevertheless dealing with the issues which come our way, irrespective of
perceived significance. Simon Baker is contemplating a re-focus, with a
view to asking 2"! Sight whether they want to flag up more serious examples,
especially if suspensions or criminal investigations have been the end
result of Horizon data concerns.

e I am identifying which Spot Reviews involved interviews under caution and
prosecutions, supplying Rodric Williams with pertinent Investigation Reports
where applicable. This enables him to have a more comprehensive picture of
each Spot Review, as opposed to being restricted to the allegations/claims
cited by the Subpostmasters in question. Rodric will use information
contained in the Investigation Reports if/when/how he feels appropriate as
we progress through the Spot Reviews.

Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

POL-0106135
Security Team. 2" Floor Banner Wing. 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ

POLO0107912
POL00107912

POL-0106135
