POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

HNG X Programme
PCI Incident Response Plan

Author(s) Richard Barber
(POL Head of Information Security)
Reviewer(s) Head of POL Security ((John Scott)

Legal & Compliance (Paul Meadows)
Commercial Security Manager

(Sally Smith)

PCI Project Manager (Connie Penn)
Live Service and Business Continuity
Manager (Gary Blackburn)

Head of Product & Branch

Accounting
(Rod Ismay)
Sign off authority
Reference configuration
Operational Baseline

Number

Version 0.6

Status

Classification Working Document
Date November 2011
Circulation HNGxX Joint Test Team, Operations

Control, POL Security teams

1 Document Control

1.1 Version History

VERSION DaTeD. CHANGE DETAILS

0.1 18/02/2008 First version of PCI Incident Response Plan

0.2 22/02/2008 Updated following informal review

0.3 29/02/2008 Including comments from informal review

0.4 13/05/2008 Including comments from formal HNGX review
Expanded forensic process

Date of issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 1 of 36
Information Security

POL00397377
POL00397377

PCI Incident Response Plan

Added appendix for approved PFls
Added appendix for Streamline incident helpdesk

0.5 27/05/2008 Revised to include Major Incident Alert and further
comments from review team
Added reference to ACPO Guidelines for computer
evidence.

0.6 04/08/2011 Updated following lessons learnt from Pin Pad failure

across the network

1.2 Change Co-ordinator

All changes to this document are to be sent to the Change Controller below:

Name
Business Address

Business Telephone Number(s)

Email Address

1.3 Related Documents

HNG Project Support Office
148 Old Street
London

EC1V 9HQ

[GRO

REF: I DOCUMENT REEF. TITLE VERSION DATE
1 CON/MGM/006 CMT high level procedures 0.53
2 $15 RMG Information Security Incident
Response Policy (S15)
3 PCI DSS Payment Card Industry Data 4.1
Security Standard
4 ACPO Guidelines Good Practice Guide for Computer- I 4
based Electronic Evidence
(Association of Chief Police
Officers)
5 1SO27001 Information technology. Security 2005
techniques. Information security
management systems.
Requirements
Date of issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 2 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

1.4 Abbreviations

ABBREVIATION DESCRIPTION

Card Schemes I Means those companies that produce payment
cards (credit or debit) e.g. Mastercard, VISA,
American Express, Discover, JCB etc

CPP. Common Point of Purchase. A term used by the
Card Schemes to refer to merchants suspected of
being used to compromise payment cards

PFI Qualified Forensic Investigator. An investigator who
has expertise examining computer systems for
evidence of malicious activity. For this PCI Incident
Response Plan such investigators must be
approved by the Card Schemes otherwise they must
not be engaged to investigate a PCI Incident. Refer

to Appendix A.
FS Fujitsu Services Ltd
HNGX Horizon Next Generation
HNGX Data Fujitsu Services Data Centre(s) used for provision
Centre of services for HNGX

IRE11/1IRE19 I Fujitsu Data Centres for HNGX. IRE11 is Primary.
IRE19 is Secondary

Merchant An organisation, usually a bank, that contracts with
Acquirer one or more Card Schemes to engage and contract
with merchants who will accept payment for goods
or services by a payment card (credit or debit)

PAN Primary Account Number. This is the number
embossed on the face side of a credit or debit card.
Usually 16 digits in 4 groups of 4 but may vary by
Card Scheme

PCI-DSS Payment Card Industry — Data Security Standard
POA Fujitsu Services Post Office Account (= RMGA)
POL Post Office Ltd

RMG Royal Mail Group

RMGA Fujitsu Services RMG Account (= POA)

SAN Storage Area Network

User An employee of Royal Mail Group, a contractor or a

third party employee, authorised to access Royal
Mail Group information systems for resources or for
the purpose of providing IT support or maintenance.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 3 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

This page intentionally left Blank

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 4 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Contents

1 Document Control
1.1. Version History...
1.2 Change Co-ordinator.
1.3. Related Documents.
1.4. Abbreviations.

2 Introduction
2.1 Purpose.....
2.2 Scope.....

3 PCI Incident Definition
3.1 Minor PCI Incident Definition.
3.2 Major PCI Incident Alert Definitior

4 PCI Incident Management
4.1 Initial Reportin:
4.2 Escalation Path
4.3 Severity Analysi
4.4 Initial PCI Incident Report.
4.5 PCI Minor Incident Declaratiot
4.6 PCI Major Incident Alert...
4.7 PCI Major Incident Declarat

5 PCI Minor Incident Management Process

S 2SS0C©C0©MMM NNN DOM WYHNNN

6 PCI Major Incident Management Process 12
6.1 Introduction...

6.2 Differences from Operations Control Procedure CON/MGM/006..
7 Reporting
7.1 Initial Reports......

7.2 PCl Incident Reports.
7.3. PCI Major Incident Reports...

8 Testing

9 Awareness and Training 21
Appendix A Payment Card Industry 23
Appendix B Excerpt from PCI DSS v1.1 24
Appendix C Content of Initial Report 25
Appendix D Forensic Investigation of PCI Major Incident 26
AppendixE Elective Disconnect of HNGX Data Centre 30

Appendix F POL Approved PFlIs
F.1 Requirements for POL Approved PFI....................
F.2 Responsi ‘ies of POL Head of Information Security.
F.3 List of POL Approved PFls..

Appendix G How to Contact Streamline 34

Date of issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 5 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

2 Introduction

While the POL Major Incident Management process is owned and managed by the
Business Continuity Team within Operations Control the PCI aspect is owned by
Information Security which manages and escalates a PCI incident as far as possible
using processes already established within POL.

A PCI Incident may impact POL in a number of ways. Minor incidents will be handled
using established processes within and across POL Security teams.

A Major PCI Incident will require escalation to and management by the Operation

Control Major Incident Management Process as defined in document

CON/MGM/006.

This document derives from RMG Information Security Incident Response Policy

(S45)-22

2.1 Purpose

The purpose of this document is as follows:

« To define a PCI Incident

e To specify how a PCI Incident should be categorised

e To define the roles and responsibilities in managing a PCI Incident at its
various stages and the methods by which management will be notified and
informed of an incident

e To outline the forensic response to a Major PCI Incident, if one is required

¢ To define why and when a Major PCI Incident may necessitate the elective
invocation of a Major Business Continuity Incident at the HNGX Data Centres

¢ To identify reporting requirements

e To identify test requirements and propose test scenarios

2.2 Scope

This document applies to POL HNGX programme after it goes live.

This document only applies in respect of the contract between POL and its
acquirer (WorldPay / HSBC Merchant Services). It does not apply to any other
payment card service used by or for POL.

This document does not apply to suppliers other than Fujitsu Services Ltd Post
Office Account. Documents need to be put in place to cover;

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 6 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

> CAP Gemini for the web
> BT/Logica for the Telephony Call Centre
> RMG for Call Centre Rod Fishing Licences

This document does not apply to any Web Portal.

3 PCI Incident Definition

A PCI Incident is one where information is received that indicates that cardholder
data may have been compromised. It is not necessary to demonstrate that
cardholder data has been compromised to declare an incident. Part of the PCI
Incident Response Plan will be an investigation to confirm whether a compromise
has or has not taken place.

PCI Incidents are defined as Minor or Major.

3.1. Minor PCI Incident Definition

The definition of a Minor PCI Incident is not an exact science and will involve the
judgement of the POL Security Incident Manager. Such an incident will typically
appear to be the work of opportunist theft not organised crime.

Such an incident is one where, for example:

a) Up to 1,000 cardholder details are suspected of being compromised
over a period of 12 months or more in four or more locations, AND

b) It can be shown conclusively that a HNGX Data Centre cannot have
been involved in the compromise

c) One or more Pin Pads or points of payment are compromised

3.2. Major PCI Incident Alert Definition

The definition of a Major PCI Incident Alert is not an exact science and should
involve the judgement of the POL Security Incident Manager and the POL Head
of Information Security. The evidence giving rise to an Alert will appear to be an
organised activity to obtain credit or debit card details and will necessarily imply
large scale compromise of data. Regardless of the volumes of data involved an
Major Incident Alert will be raised if any HNGX Data Centre appears to be
involved. The suspicion that an HNGX Data Centre is involved will depend on an
interpretation of the circumstances surrounding the allegation and the evidence
obtained.

Thus a Major PCI Incident Alert is one where, for example:
a) asingle large volume compromise appears to have occurred e.g. more

than 1,000 cardholder details over a period of no more than one week
in four or less locations, OR

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 7 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

b) the evidence indicates that payment card data compromised may have
come from POL systems.

c) Where a Merchant Acquirer has indicated POL to may be a Common
Point of Purchase (CPP).

4 PCI Incident Management

This section describes the entry points to the PCI Incident Management Process
and the decision points leading to a Minor Incident declaration or a Major Incident
declaration.

The process is shown in Figure 1 on page 14. and described in Table 1 on page
15.

4.1 Initial Reporting

An Initial Report is one made by any POL team receiving an allegation from any
source that payment card data may have been compromised while in the
possession of POL.

Sources include (but are not limited to): Business Partners, Suppliers or External
Agencies, Customers or Users.

It is also possible that the Merchant Acquirer may be the source. This may occur
if POL has been identified as a Common Point of Purchase (CPP).

An Initial Report is the first indication received of the possible compromise of
cardholder data whilst in the POL environment (counters, business processes,
data centre networks, systems, suppliers etc).

Each POL team that may be expected to make an Initial Report must ensure they
know what information must be obtained from the source. See Section 7.1 and
Appendix C.

4.2 Escalation Path

The Initial Report must be passed to the first person in the list below. That person
must respond with a positive written confirmation that the Initial Report has been
received and that they are dealing with it.

If no such response is received within 24 hours then the Initial Report must be
passed to the next person on the list in exactly the same manner and each time
allowing 24 hours for a response.

ESCALATION ROLE

1 POL Security Incident Manager

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 8 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

2 POL Head of Information Security

3 POL Operations Live Service Manager

4.3 Severity Analysis

The person receiving the Initial Report (as defined in the Escalation Path section
4.2) will obtain, confirm and review the evidence of the incident if it is not
provided with the Initial Report. It is presumed that such evidence will be a copy
of the cardholder data that is alleged to have been compromised. The content
and format of the cardholder data may point to how the incident may have taken
place.

The POL Security Incident Manager or the POL Head of Information Security
must review the evidence and classify the severity of the incident as Minor or
raise a Major Incident Alert. See Section 3.

If the Initial Report has found its way to the POL Operations Live Service
Manager their responsibility will be to acquire the evidence as above and ensure
that it is reviewed by the POL Security Incident Manager or the POL Head of
Information Security. If that is not possible the evidence is reviewed and the
incident severity determined as Minor or a Major Incident Alert is issued by the
POL Operations Live Service Manager in conjunction with a senior manager
within POL who will take responsibility for the incident in the place of the POL
Head of Information Security and fulfil all the relevant duties in respect of the
incident process.

If no evidence exists then the incident is closed.

The Severity Analysis will be entered into the Incident Report.

4.4 Initial PCI Incident Report

The POL Security Incident Manager is responsible for completing a PCI Incident
Report. These reports will use the general incident report format used for all
Information Security incidents.

PCI Minor Incident Reports are passed to the POL Head of Information Security
and reviewed on a monthly basis.

PCI Major Incident Alerts must be passed to the POL Head of Information
Security within one hour of the Major Incident Alert being determined.

4.5 PCI Minor Incident Declaration

Based on the evidence received the POL Security Incident Manager may declare
an incident a PCI Minor Incident.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 9 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

The POL Security Incident Manager will also pass a copy of the PCI Incident
Report to the Head of Product and Branch Accounting in the Finance Department
so that the Merchant Acquirer can be informed of the incident. The PCI Incident
Report remains open until the incident is resolved. The PCI Incident Report must
be updated with any progress made and this must also be communicated to the
Merchant Acquirer through the normal channels. See Section 5.

If the Initial Report and the evidence shows that a HNGX Data Centre may be
implicated then the incident is automatically a PCI Major Incident.

NB In addition to the PCI Incident Response process all PCI Minor Incidents
should be passed to the POL Security (Fraud) Team for investigation of the
possible fraud.

4.6 PCI Major Incident Alert

If the person reviewing the evidence decides it justifies a PCI Major Incident Alert
the PCI Incident Report must be passed to the POL Head of Information Security
within 1 hour of the Alert being issued.

The POL Head of Information Security will review the allegation and the evidence
and must confirm or downgrade the Severity Analysis.

If the Severity Analysis is confirmed this is entered into the PCI Incident Report
and a PCI Major Incident Alert is issued. This is described in Section 6.

Once a PCI Major Incident Alert is raised it will necessitate the same process as
used by POL Operations for a Major Incident using CON/MGM/006. The
circumstances and the evidence will be reviewed by the Working Group which
will direct an investigation to confirm whether the Alert merits being escalated to a
Major Incident Declaration.

It is required that the Working Group will confer with POL senior management,
POL Legal & Compliance, POL Operations, POL Head of Information Security
and the Supplier before electing to declare a Major Incident.

Both the investigation and any subsequent activities must be achieved in a
forensically sound manner in accordance with both ACPO Guidelines and the PFI
requirements of the Card Schemes. The latter may be found in Appendix D.

4.7 PCI Major Incident Declaration

If the Major Incident Alert is confirmed then the Working Group must issue a PCI
Major Incident Declaration. POL then has 72 hours in which to engage a PFI.
The decision to initiate and complete a mirror image of the card holder
environment will be made by the Working Group as part of the POL Operations
Major Incident Management Process.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 10 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

The Imaging must be achieved in a forensically sound manner in accordance with
both ACPO Guidelines and the PFI requirements of the Card Schemes. The
former may be downloaded from the Internet’? and the latter may be found in
Appendix D.

The POL Head of Information Security must pass a copy of the PCI Incident
Report to the Head of Product and Branch Accounting in the Finance Department
so that the Merchant Acquirer can be informed of the Major Incident. The PCI
Incident Report must be updated by the POL Head of Information Security as part
of the Working Group (see Section 6.2) with any progress made and this must
also be communicated to the Merchant Acquirer through the normal channels.

The POL Operations Major Incident Management Process (CON/MGM/006) must
be used to manage the incident. See Section 6.

5 PCI Minor Incident Management Process

A PCI Minor Incident will not have occurred within the HNGX Data Centres.
However applications hosted within the HNGX Data Centres may have been used
to compromise cardholder data.

PCI Minor Incidents could be a result of abuse of Horizon systems, Post Office
processes or Supplier systems or processes by POL, RMG or Supplier staff using
privileges to obtain cardholder data from Audit, Transaction Enquiry or other
systems. Or they could be the result of PO Counter staff falsely obtaining
cardholder data at the Counter e.g. through techniques such as “skimming”.

The POL Security Incident Manager will obtain, confirm and review the evidence
of the incident. It is presumed that such evidence will be a copy of the cardholder
data that is purported to have been compromised. The content and format of the
cardholder data can point to how and/or where the incident may have taken
place.

Minor Incidents will be passed to and investigated by the POL Security Team.
The POL Security Team will become responsible for the incident and will report
progress back to the POL Security Incident Manager who will update the Incident
Report and distribute according to Section 7.2.

Whichever team receives a PCI Minor Incident Declaration will investigate the
incident following their normal processes and with due regard to safeguarding
evidence that may be needed for a prosecution.

* httpy/www.acpo.police.uk/asp/policies/Data/ACPO%20Guidelines%20v18.pdf
2 ttp:yAwww. safe, com/electronic_evidence/ACPO_guidelines_computer_evidence pdf

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 11 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

6 PCI Major Incident Management Process

6.1 Introduction

In the event of a major incident, activities must be co-ordinated within POL and
Supplier businesses in order to minimise adverse impact and protect service to
both customers and clients. Due to the large number of teams and activities
involved this cannot effectively be managed by POL Information Security.

Consequently a PCI Major Incident requires the invocation of the Operations
Control Major Incident Management Process.

This process is identified in Operations Control Procedure CON/MGM/006. The
highest incident level in that process is Level 3 and is applicable to a PCI Major
Incident.

The reason that a Major PCI Incident is automatically a Level 3 Major Incident is
because the requirements of the forensic investigation process may necessitate
the decision to image the card holder environment and logs in order to preserve
and analyse the data within for evidence.

6.2 Differences from Operations Control Procedure CON/MGM/006

This description and the Operations Control Process refers to the ‘Working
Group’. This is made up of all or specified members of the POL Business
Protection Team, as selected by the POL Live Service Team for the specific
incident.

The key difference is that a Major PCI Incident Alert invokes the POL Major
Incident Management Process and convenes a Working Group from the Business
Protection Team.

Under this change the Alert is managed as though it were an actual incident to
ensure proper management and investigation can take place and to meet the
requirements of the Merchant Acquirer and the Card Schemes.

The investigation of a PCI Major Incident Alert and any subsequent Declaration
requires the formal engagement of an external company approved by MasterCard
and VISA to provide a Qualified Forensic Investigator (PFI). The PFI must be
from the Card Schemes approved list and is usually appointed via the Merchant
Acquirer — note this must be a different company from the QSA used to certify

PCI Compliance. The POL Head of Information Security will maintain a list of POL
approved PFI companies in Appendix F of this document using the process
defined there.

The POL Live Service Team within Operations Control retains the co-ordination
point for this incident process.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 12 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

The POL Head of Information Security and Head of Legal & Compliance must be
active participants in the Working Group. If the POL Head of Information Security
or Head of Risk & Compliance are not available they will appoint a substitute and
will communicate this to the Live Service Team. If the POL Head of Information
Security or Head of Legal & Compliance cannot be contacted, then the POL
Operations Manager will assume that role supported by members of the Working
Group.

The POL Head of Information Security will report the progress and findings of the
forensic investigation to the Working Group established to manage the incident.

The Working Group must ensure that the PCI Incident Report reflects any
progress made during the incident investigation and is formally communicated to
the Merchant Acquirer via the Head of Product and Branch Accounting.

The POL Security Incident Manager must re-locate to the HNGX Data Centre
where the investigation is taking place and act as coordinator and liaison
between the POL Head of Information Security, the HNGX Data Centre Incident
Response Team and the PFI.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 13 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Figure 1: PCI Incident Management Flowchart

START
y
Incident
é Reported
——v¥
62) PCI Incident
S Report
x
(Incident Closed \¢ No Incident Keys, Major
Analysis
_ _ Verify Major (@
Ga) Ga) Minor Incident /
v EN
; : Confirm EN
PY a jen le Mngt eet Downgrade Severity Severity (8)
ig Analysis /
13)
+ ¥ ¥ ¥ ¥v
ee Establish local Escalate to POL
Inform Merchant Acquirer i liaison at POA Live Service
investigation oo. .
es ata Centre ‘eam
7) 8) 6)
——¥ __
Transfer incident] <<
managementtoI I 9
POL Live -
Service Team
pe _- __
‘Appoint working group
I and hold conference call =
See CON/MGMIPLA/001 (10)
cf Box 5 Figure 1 and /
Table
First formal advisory to
Merchant Acquirer

Note: If minor incident results in POL making a public apology, inform merchant
acquirer, before a public announcement to assure them of the fact that data has
not been compromised. The same actions should apply if for any reason cards
cannot be handled at the counter & a public apology is being made.

Date of Issue: Draft Version 0.6 Page 14 of 36
Information Security

POL00397377
POL00397377

PCI Incident Response Plan

Table 1: PCI Incid

lent Management Process

Description I Key I Action
: : S a : ONE [timescales I owner _
1. I Incident reported Incident identified (clause 4.1)
The Initial Report is passed to the POL Security Incident Manager or another
member of the Escalation path (clause 4.2). A minimum of 24 hours and a
maximum of 72 hours is allowed.
2. I PCI Incident Report ¢ The Initial Report is reviewed Within one POL Security
© Copy of Evidence is obtained business day of I Incident
Incident Report opened Initial Report. Manager or
alternative
3. I Severity Analysis Evidence reviewed and incident is: Within 2 hours POL Security
e closed, or of Incident Incident
¢ classified as Minor, or Report being Manager or
¢ _ assessed as Major opened alternative
If the incident is Minor impact go to box 11. If the incident is Major proceed to box 4:
4. I Verify Major incident Incident Report with Severity Analysis and Within 1 day of I POL Security
evidence is passed to Head of Information raising a Major I Incident
Security if a Major Incident Alert is issued Incident Alert Manager or
alternative
5. I Confirm Severity Analysis Incident Report with Severity Analysis and Within 1 day of I POL Head of
evidence is assessed. If downgraded incident I raising a Major I Information
passes back to POL Security Incident Incident Alert. Security or
Manager. If confirmed the Alert is escalated to alternative
the POL Live Service Team who will initiate
an investigation to determine if a Major
Incident Declaration is warranted
If Severity Analysis is downgraded go to box 11. If the incident is confirmed as Major proceed to box 6
6. I Escalate to POL Live Service Team ¢ Email Incident Report to POL Live Service I Within 1 day of I POL Head of
Team raising a Major I Information
¢ — follow up with phone call. Incident Alert. Security or
¢ Set out PCI Major Incident Management alternative
Process requirements should these be

Date of Issue

Draft Version 0.6

Page 15 of 36
Information Security

POL00397377
POL00397377

PCI Incident Response Plan

° needed.
7. I Engage Forensic Investigation Team e Select and engage PFI from list of POL Within 3 days of I POL Head of
approved companies. raising a Major Information
¢ Authorise PFI to investigate Alert Incident Alert. Security or
¢ PFI will report whether Alert is justified alternative
8. I Establish local liaison at HNGX Data Centre POL Security Incident Manager relocated to Within 3 days of I POL Head of
POA to effect local liaison and incident raising a Major Information
management with Supplier teams. Incident Alert. Security or
alternative
9. I Transfer incident management to POL Live Service Team I Control of Incident is passed to POL Live Within 1 day of I POL Head of
Service Team in conjunction with POL Head I raising a Major I Information
of Information Security because of specialist Incident Alert. Security or
security assessments and skills required. alternative
10. I Appoint working group and hold conference call The POL Live Service Team appoints a Within 1 day of I POL Live
working group to participate in the raising a Major I Service
management of the incident. Incident Alert. Team and
appointed
The working group will be made up of working
appropriate representatives from the Business group.
Protection Team, relevant POL
business/technical managers and appropriate
representation from supplier domains [if
appropriate].
If Alert is confirmed then a conference call is
held and will decide next steps; initiate the
Elective Disconnect and compose the first
formal (contractually required) communication
with the Merchant Acquirer.
On direction from the Working Group and
MIEG the Head of Product and Branch
Accounting will formally communicate the
existence of the Major Incident to the
Merchant Acquirer through the established
channels.
Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 16 of 36
Information Security

POL00397377
POL00397377

PCI Incident Response Plan

Further communication with Merchant
Acquirer will be via Head of Product & Branch
Accounting at intervals to be agreed with
Merchant Acquirer or as directed by Working
Group.

Low impact incident [continued from box 3]:

11. I Minor Incident Declared

¢ Incident confirmed as Minor on Incident
Report.

* Copy of PCI Incident Report sent to Head
of Product and Branch Accounting for
formal communication to Merchant
Acquirer.

Within 4 hours
of incident being
confirmed as
Minor

POL Security
Incident
Manager or
alternative

12. I POL Security Team Investigation

POL Security Incident Manager passes control
of incident to POL Security Team for
investigation (PCI Minor Incidents are
managed using existing business as usual
processes by the POL Security Team.)

Within 4 hours
of incident being
confirmed as
Minor

POL Security
Incident
Manager or
alternative

13. I Inform Merchant Acquirer

Head of Product and Branch Accounting
formally communicates PCI Incident Report to
Merchant Acquirer and acts as liaison for
future updates to this report.

Within 4 hours
of receiving
Minor PCI
Incident report

Head of
Product and
Branch
Accounting or
alternative

If a PCI Minor Incident escalates to a PCI Major Incident, i.e. the initial impact worsens, then the incident would be reassessed and the

process would proceed to box 4.

Date of Issue

Draft Version 0.6

Page 17 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

7 Reporting

7.1 Initial Reports

An Initial Report is the first indication received of the possible compromise of
cardholder data whilst in the POL environment (counters, business processes,
data centre networks, systems, suppliers etc).

An Initial Report is a term that describes the details that must be taken when it
becomes apparent that cardholder data may have been compromised.

An Initial Report may arise from any Supplier or External Agency or from within
POL or RMG.

An Initial Report may be taken by any of the channels that normally receive calls
from any party external or internal to POL. Examples of external parties could be
Law Enforcement Agencies, Suppliers, Merchant Acquirer, UK Cards Association
(formerly APACS), members of the public, the media — this is not an exhaustive
list.

The channels that might receive calls from external parties could be Business
Service Centres, RMG Corporate Security Centre, POL Security Team, RMG
Portal Webmaster(s), eBusiness team, Horizon Service Desk or National
Business Support Centre.

Whichever channel receives a call from an external or internal (POL or RMG)
party should log the call using their local procedure and in addition ensure they
obtain the details for an Initial Report and then pass the details to the POL
Security Incident Manager in POL Information Security.

The details that must be taken for a Initial Report are defined in Appendix C.

7.2 PCl Incident Reports

PCI Incident reports must be completed and logged by the POL Security Incident
Manager using the normal Incident Report format or as otherwise determined.
Within any Incident Reports PCI Incidents must be clearly marked as such.

PCI Incident Reports will include all the details of the Initial Report plus the
Severity Analysis. Additionally the PCI Incident Report will include a unique
Incident number; a summary of the incident, status of incident, issues arising from
incident and chase/resolution dates.

The PCI Incident Report must be updated until closed. Updates for Minor
incidents must be copied directly to the Head of Product & Branch Accounting for
onward communication to the Merchant Acquirer in accordance with the
requirements of the contract between POL and the Merchant Acquirer. Updates
for Major incidents must be passed to the Working Group and then

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 18 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

communicated to the Merchant Acquirer via the Head of Product & Branch
Accounting.

PCI Minor Incident Reports are passed to the POL Head of Information Security
and reviewed on a monthly basis.

7.3. PCI Major Incident Reports
It is presumed that PCI Major Incidents will only occur within HNGX Data Centres.

The POL Security Incident Manager will complete a PCI Major Incident Report as
soon as the incident is declared. This report will be made available to all
management involved in deciding how to manage the Incident.

The PCI Major Incident Report must include a unique incident reference (which
clearly shows the incident as Major) and will describe the incident, the reason for
the severity (which will also describe the evidence), the status and the likelihood
that the Data Centres are at risk.

PCI Major Incident Reports will be updated following the process for reporting
defined in the Operations Control Major Incident Management Process.

The POL Security Incident Manager will liaise with external organisations
involved in the incident e.g. Third Parties, Forensic experts etc in preparing a
Post Incident Report. All such liaison will be communicated to the POL Head of
Information Security and be communicated via the channels implemented within
the Operations Control Major Incident Management Process.

The POL Security Incident Manager will complete and distribute a post-incident
report, initially within one week of the incident. Such report will include a root-
cause analysis and will be passed to the POL Head of Information Security to
approve and distribute to senior management.

8 Testing

PCI DSS requires the plan be tested at least annually. The POL Security Incident
Manager is responsible for ensuring that test plans are provided and appropriate
(is this happening for PinPad incidents and should test plans be scheduled?)

Test scenarios may be worked into the existing Business Continuity tests and this
is preferable for a Major Incident.

Testing must include a scenario where a Merchant Acquirer declares POL is a
Common Point of Purchase.

Minor incidents should be tested more frequently and should cover likely
scenarios involving low numbers of cardholder details e.g. 100 PANs over 6
months (see Connie’s comments on hard copy)

Tests should at least focus on:

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 19 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

a. ensuring that channels of communication work as expected and are timely
b. ensuring that Initial Reports are accurate and reliable
c. ensuring that evidence is gathered

d. ensuring that severity analyses are conducted; are effective and are
appropriate

e. confirming that staff, third parties and especially key suppliers are aware
of their responsibilities and have effective incident processes in place

f. confirming that all third party forensic response and capability is
appropriate and effective.

g. ensuring that lessons learned are adopted back into the incident process

9 Awareness and Training

PCI DSS requires that appropriate training be given to those with security breach
responsibilities. The POL Security Incident Manager is responsible for ensuring
that Awareness & Training is planned; that content is appropriate; that relevant
staff are trained or made aware and that the POL Head of Information Security
received a report on its effectiveness.

The Awareness & Training content needs to ensure, at the least, that the
following teams, in POL, RMG and Third Parties, are aware of their roles and
responsibilities in the event of a suspected and a declared breach:

a. Security teams

b. Helpdesk teams

c. Operations teams, particularly P&BA
As a minimum training needs to focus on:

a. Awareness of the importance of and need for Payment Card Industry
cardholder data security

b. Appreciation of the potential impact of a Major incident
c. Awareness of the PCI Incident Response Plan
d. How to complete an Initial Report;

e. Ensuring that Initial Reports are passed to correct contact with positive
confirmation of receipt

f. Ensuring that incident information is not disclosed to unauthorised parties
and especially that POL liability is not admitted

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 20 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Staff with specialist roles must receive training appropriate to their
responsibilities.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 21 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix A Payment Card Industry

Card Schemes set the business rules that govern the issue of the payment cards
that carry their logo. Typically, these rules apply throughout the world to ensure
global interoperability of cards and in some countries, domestic rules may
operate. The Card Schemes provide authorisation, clearing and settlement
platforms for payment card transactions, and licence the use of their logo.
Financial Institutions must be members of the appropriate Card Scheme to issue
their cards and acquire their card transactions.

Acquirers have a business relationship with merchants, retailers and other
service providers to process their card transactions. Acquirers obtain financial
settlement from card issuers, typically via the card schemes and pay the
proceeds to the merchant, less their processing fees.

For the purposes of this document the Acquirer for POL is currently Worldpay,
but moving to HSBC Merchant Services from Autumn 2011 (due to complete April
2012).

The PCI Security Standards Council is a global forum responsible for the
development, management, education, and awareness of the PCI Security
Standards, including the Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), Payment Application
Data Security Standard (PA-DSS), and PIN Transaction Security (PTS)
requirements.

The Council's five founding global payment brands (American Express, Discover
Financial Services, JCB International, MasterCard Worldwide, and Visa Inc.) have
agreed to incorporate the PCI DSS as the technical requirements of each of their
data security compliance programmes which is legally binding on Acquirers (and the
merchants they acquire) by virtue of the Acquirer’s contract with the Schemes.

The enforcement of compliance with the PCI DSS and determination of any non-
compliance penalties on Acquirers are carried out by the individual payment brands
and not by the Council.

PCI DSS requirements are applicable if a Primary Account Number (PAN) is
stored, processed, or transmitted. If a PAN is not stored, processed, or
transmitted, PCI DSS requirements do not apply. At present Horizon On-Line,
CAP Gemini for our web applications and BT/Logica & call centres for our
telephony & Rod Fishing Licence products are in scope for PCI DSS.

The PCI DSS security standard requires a documented incident process for any
incident that affects or may affect the security of cardholder data. This
documented process is required to be audited and tested annually and must be
invoked should it be suspected that cardholder data may have been
compromised.

Cardholder data includes all data on the card or on its magnetic stripe or
contained within the chip. This data includes but is not limited to the: Primary
Account Number (PAN), Cardholder name, Service code, Expiration date,

> tp. apacs.org.uk/resources_publications/glossary_7.htm

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 22 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Security codes (e.g. CVV2 etc), magnetic stripe data, PIN code etc., and also
applies to customer not present card data (e.g. e-Commerce, mail order and
telephone order/call centres).

Appendix B PFI — all this is covered in Appendix F/Excerpt from PCI DSS v2
[October 2010]

12.9 Implement an incident response plan. Be prepared to respond
immediately to a system breach.

12.9.1 Create the incident response plan to be implemented in the event of
system breach. Ensure the plan addresses the following, at a minimum:
> Roles, responsibilities, and communication and contact strategies in

the event of a compromise including
> notification of the payment brands, at a minimum
> Specific incident response procedures
> Business recovery and continuity procedures
> Data back-up processes
> Analysis of legal requirements for reporting compromises
» Coverage and responses of all critical system components
> Reference or inclusion of incident response procedures from the
payment
brands

12.9.2 Test the plan at least annually

12.9.3 Designate specific personnel to be available on a 24/7 basis to respond to
alerts

12.9.4 — Provide appropriate training to staff with security breach response
responsibilities

12.9.5 Include alerts from intrusion detection, intrusion prevention, and file
integrity monitoring systems

12.9.6 Develop process to modify and evolve the incident response plan
according to lessons learned and to incorporate industry developments.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 23 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix C Content of Initial Report

Anyone receiving an initial report must NOT under any circumstances admit
any liability for or on behalf of POL and must not pass any personal opinion
regarding the incident. At this stage the incident is not confirmed.

An Initial Report must include:
a) Date and time

b) Agent name, contact details and network identifier. An Agent is any person
representing Post Office Ltd in receiving an allegation of a compromise of
cardholder data or an incident around Pin Pads or card data in any form in
the context of this PCI Incident Response Process.

Cc) contact details of the person making the report e.g. name, organisation
(e.g. Police, member of public, RMG, Supplier etc), landline telephone
number, mobile telephone number, address etc

d) Complete description of the cardholder data and format in which it may
have been compromised e.g. PANs (Primary Account Numbers — the 16
numbers normal found on the front of the card), cardholder name etc

e) Caller’s description of events that indicate a compromise or incident of
cardholder data may have taken place.

f) How many card details are thought to be involved
9g) How the compromise or incident happened
h) Why the caller believes POL is involved.

i) Agent must ask and record what is the evidence that cardholder data may
have been compromised.

j) Agent must also ask for copies of the evidence that cardholder data may
have been compromised.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 24 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix D_ Forensic Investigation of PCI Major Incident

Purpose and Background

It is assumed that this Major Incident involves the HNGX Data Centres. It is a
contractual requirement on POL that an external and fully qualified forensic team
must investigate a PCI Major Incident.

The POL Head of Information Security will maintain a list of approved forensic
investigators. See Appendix F. No other forensic team may be involved without
the explicit written approval of the POL Head of Information Security or the
Working Group otherwise POL risks a breach of contractual obligations which
may result in a cessation of payment card processing by the Merchant Acquirer.

The forensic investigators may decide that the incident may only be resolved by
an elective disconnect of the Data Centres. The decision to image all or some of
the systems that comprise HNGX will necessarily involve the correct level of
management via the Working Group.

All parties involved in the PCI Major Incident must support the forensic
investigation performed by the Qualified Forensic Investigator. There are
mandatory actions performed by the PFI during a forensic investigation which are
required by the Card Schemes and which will include the following:

a) Determine the cardholder information at risk

a. Number of accounts at risk. Identify those stored and compromised
on all test, development and production systems

b. Type of account information at risk:

i. Full magnetic-stripe data (e.g. track 1 and 2) and its
equivalent on the chip

ii. PIN blocks
iii. Cvwv2
iv. Account Number (PAN)

v. Expiration date
vi. Cardholder name
vii. I Cardholder address

c. All data exported by intruder

d. The timeframe of account numbers stored and compromised

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 25 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

NOTE: If applicable the PFI must run a packet sniffer on the
compromised entity’s network

b) Perform incident validation and assessment:
a. Establish how the compromise or incident occurred
b. Identify the source of the compromise or incident
c. Determine the timeframe of the compromise or incident

d. Compromised entity must provide a diagram of the network that
includes:

i. Cardholder data sent to data centre

ii. Upstream connection(s) to third party payment
processor(s)

iii. Connection to Merchant Acquirer

iv. Remote access connections
v. Specifics on firewall, infrastructure, host and personnel
findings

e. Review the entire network to identify all compromised or affected
systems, considering the e-commerce, corporate, test, development
and production systems as well as VPN, modem, DSL and cable
modem connections and any third party connections

f. Determine if compromise has been contained

Cc) Check for Track 1 and Track 2 data, CVV2 and/or PIN block storage or
CNP card data

a. Examine all potential locations — including payment application — to
determine if CVV2 Track 1 and Track 2 data and/or PIN blocks are
stored, whether encrypted or unencrypted (e.g. in production or
backup databases or tables used in development, application logs,
transaction logs, trouble-shooting or exception files, stage or testing
environment data on software engineers’ machines etc.).

d) If full track data, CVV2 and/or PIN blocks are stored by a payment
application, identify the vendor name, product name and version number.
Or CNP, PAN, expiry date, CVV2

e) Preserve all potential electronic evidence on a platform suitable for review
and analysis by a court of law if needed

f) Perform external and internal vulnerability scan

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 26 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

9)

h)

Based on their findings the PFI will report to Merchant Acquirer the
compliance status for each of the twelve basic requirements under the PCI
Data Security Standard.

Report findings to the Merchant Acquirer

Process Assumptions

a)

There will be a phased approach to forensic investigation of data in HNGX.
This would utilise a principle of "least invasive to most invasive", the same
applies for the web and call centres.

Once a Major Incident is declared POL has 72 hours in which a PFI must
be involved in this process.

The Working Group convened under the POL Operations Major Incident
Management Process will decide whether the Alert justifies declaration of
an Major PCI Incident and will take advice on when an elective disconnect
of IRE11 and/or IRE 19 might need to happen, CAP Gemini or Logica and
RMG Call Centres.

The parallel steps i.e. A1, A2 etc, can only take place if there are sufficient
PFls to carry out those steps in parallel. Fewer resources will increase the
number of steps needed.

Live service from IRE11 and IRE19 will be maintained as long as possible
with minimal interruption to service

Provision (process and equipment) will be made during an Incident to
obtain a forensic copy of data in the SAN in IRE11.

The Elective Disconnect will be utilised in order to ensure containment of
an incident, but only as a very last resort, because currently logs are
deemed sufficient for the most part.

Forensic Investigation Process

Al.

A2.

A3.

Forensic experts (PFI) briefed on design of data centre, network diagram,
PCI data flows, storage locations, data formats, audit and logging points,
approved memory processes, sockets and protocols etc. Web platform,
call centre environment & transaction status.

Immediately suspend all planned changes to data centre servers,
applications, storage etc. i.e. no code releases, no servers deployed or
removed from service, web platform & call centres.

All admin access to data centre hosts restricted to "four-eyes" access e.g.
administrators must be effectively escorted during any access to any host
by another administrator.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 27 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377
Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan
A4. Initiate an immediate physical security escalation of data centre access.
Secure data centre CCTV and access control records, work records etc.
B. Initial Report reviewed by PFls to determine which systems, transport
networks or processes may be out of scope. This is based on a
comparison of the evidence against the data in the systems and
processes.
Cc. Based on the Initial Report PFI assess what external links, servers,
applications, processes and storage might be compromised. All others
placed out of scope.
D. PFI decides what SAN data must be secured and begins activities to
identify and secure that data
E. Any external links implicated are physically checked for monitoring tools by

external team from POL, assisted by external FS staff and escorted by FS
data centre operations manager.

F1. PFI review all SYSMAN3 logs & all log data held for 12 months as per the
PCI requirement.

F2. PFl review IRE11 bladeframe server processes in live memory for rogue
processes.

F3. PFI copy selected areas of SAN in IRE11 for systems and applications in
scope of forensic investigation.

F4. PFl review SAN data for evidence of security breach.

G. If none of the above yields sufficient information to exclude the possibility
that data has been compromised (and arriving at this stage this is
exceedingly unlikely) then elective disconnect of IRE11 is invoked if that is
the only remaining option for forensic investigation.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 28 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix E Elective Disconnect of HNGX Data Centre

This is a major Business Continuity Event in which a Data Centre is disconnected
from its connecting networks in a planned and organised manner.

It is similar to a major Business Continuity Incident but is different in that it is
planned and is forced by the requirement to comply with an obligation under
contract with the Merchant Acquirer.

The purpose of the Elective Disconnect is to ensure that no network based
process or traffic may deliberately or unintentionally change the state of the
processes or data in the affected environment.

The consequences of not complying may be the withdrawal of the facility to
process card transactions under that contract. This in itself may not have the
same overall effect on POL operations at the Counters as disconnecting the Data
Centre(s) but which may endure for a good deal longer. Whether this would be
the case and how much longer it would last depends almost entirely on
negotiation with the Merchant Acquirer.

The worst case scenario is one where the Merchant Acquirer is not influenced by
outside pressures or negotiation and denies POL the facility to process any
relevant payment card transactions until satisfied that the security breach has
been completely identified; that the breach did not compromise or no longer
compromises cardholder data.

Relevant payment cards are those falling under the contract with that Merchant
Acquirer. In the scope of this PCI Incident Plan that would be Worldpay (moving
to HSBC end of 2011).

Planning the Elective Disconnect

This ideally would have already been completed by the Data Centre supplier. It
should form part of the annual test of this plan.

The disconnect must identify two scenarios:

a). I The Primary Data Centre must be disconnected from all external networks
e.g. Fujitsu corporate network, the internet, the POL Counters environment
and any other Data Centres.

b) Specific systems within the Data Centre must be disconnected from
internal networks as advised by the PFI.

Any disconnection must be achieved in a forensically sound fashion and with due
regard for the need to contain an incident.

It should also include a planned re-connection. It might be assumed that would be
the same as bringing the Data Centre(s) back online after a major BC incident.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 29 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

However a test would demonstrate whether this would be the case or not and a
test should therefore be undertaken.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 30 of 36
POL00397377

POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix F POL Approved PFis
(being sourced)

F.1 Requirements for POL Approved PFI

The key considerations for the formal approval by POL of a company capable of
the forensic investigation of HNGX data centres are threefold:

1. The Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council will maintain a list of
approved PCI Forensic Investigators to replace the individual payment card
brand lists as of March 1, 2011 — the current list is available via the PCI
SSC website. PFI

2. The company offering PFI services must appear on the POL Preferred
Suppliers List

3. The PFI must have a separate commercial contract for the provision of
services as a PFI quite apart from any other commercial contract for any
other services which the company may provide.

4. The PFI must satisfy the POL Head of Information Security that they are
capable and experienced in the forensic investigation of virtualised
bladeframe and SAN environments when the data centres for Horizon are
involved

5. The PFI must satisfy the POL Head of Information Security that they are
familiar with and fully support the process described in Appendix D
“Forensic Investigation of PCI Major Incident”.

6. The PFI must have full security clearance to be able to go on-site in Belfast.

F.2.__ Responsibilities of POL Head of Information Security
It is the responsibility of the POL Head of Information Security to:

a) Correctly assess a candidate PFI for inclusion on the list according to the
criteria set out above in F.1

b) Ensure that the list is kept current and that the details are accurate and
complete.

c) Ensure that all key parties are informed of the latest list when it has been
updated

from any other VISA organisation
5 Itis also very important that this search be performed from the www. visaeurope.com website as other search engines may return an out-of-
date PFI lst

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 31 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

d) In the event of a PCI Major Incident to select a PFI from the list; confirm this
selection with senior management (if need be) and communicate this
selection to the Working Group and other key parties e.g. Merchant
Acquirer, Fujitsu RMGA, IRE 11 and 19 Data Centre Operations Manager
etc.

This is important because in the event of a PCI Major Incident affecting HNGX
data centre other parties in POL or Fujitsu may refer to this list and select a PFI
from it in the absence of the POL Head of Information Security.

Selecting a PFI that does not meet the necessary criteria given above may cause
unnecessary delays to the incident management process or at worst compromise
the effectiveness of the investigation and potentially bring harm to POL and/or
RMG brand.

F.3 List of POL Approved PFis

List of POL Approved PFls

Company Contact

Name:
Email:

Phone:

Name:
Email:

Phone:

Name:

Email:

Phone:

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 32 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix G How to Contact Acquirer

The text in this section has been reproduced from the Streamline Merchant
Operating Instructions which may be found online6.

What to do if data is compromised (update for HSBC

Merchant Services)

If you believe that cardholder information has been obtained by an unauthorised
person or company, this fact must be reported to HSBC Merchant Services as soon
as possible together with details of all the account numbers involved and all the
circumstances of the compromise.

Acting promptly to notify us and limit the possible consequences after a
compromise incident has occurred is vital.

Have a business continuity plan in place should a data compromise be identified,
whether the problem is in your own systems, or as a result of a support failure, or a
failure by another organisation with which you share information.

Should you encounter or suspect a cardholder information compromise, please
notify the updated details.......

* Max call charge from BT landline is 3p per minute. Calls from other networks may vary. Telephone calls may
be monitored and recorded to improve our service.

The opening hours are — needs updating:
0. 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Monday to Friday
1. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Saturday

2. 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Sundays

3. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Bank Holidays

An answer phone message is in place outside of these hours. Calls may be
recorded.

© http:/Awww.streamiine.worldpay.com/support/kb/moi/moi.htmi#moi5 100.htmi

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 33 of 36
POL00397377
POL00397377

Information Security PCI Incident Response Plan

Appendix H_ Information Flows

This diagram illustrates where an allegation may enter POL and once inside POL
where it may be routed until it reaches the POL Security Incident Manager
(Information Security).

The routes from Compliance and Product & Branch Accounting are different in
that one tracks movements of large transactions and so is internally generated
and the other relates to a Common Point of Purchase (CPP) declaration coming
from a Merchant Acquirer via their contact in P&BA.

All these flows describe what are current information or escalation processes
within POL.

Date of Issue Draft Version 0.6 Page 34 of 36
Information Security

POL00397377
POL00397377

PCI Incident Response Plan

‘Post Office Post Master or\
‘Sub Post Master

Figure 2: PCI Information Flowchart

(POL Product & Branch \,

Accounting =
(RFI from MA)
al
National Business Support
Centre
7
a
Grapevine
™ (POL public service )

ED
3
2
°
&
3
3
8
ry
8
3

—

POL Security
(Casework Management
Team)

POL Security Incident
Manager
(Information Security)

Page 35 of 36

Date of Issue

Draft Version 0.6
