Memo

11" October 2006
Investigation Team Post Office Limited

c.c. Graham Brander

ROYAL MAIL GROUP plc v JOSEPHINE HAMILTON
CASE NO: POLTD/0506/0685

Please see minute from Graham Brander. In my opinion the evidence is sufficient to
afford a realistic prospect of conviction of the above named on the charges set out on
the attached Schedule. In my opinion there is a low/medium prospect of success. The
Defendant will no doubt argue that she got into a muddle due to confusion with the
Post Office system and lack of training. The prosecution will need to refute this.
Details of training given will need to be presented and the prosecution will need to
illustrate that the Defendant had a good understanding of the accounts. A statement
will be needed to confirm confirm this.

In due course an approached may be made by the defence regarding consideration of
false accounting charges. If this happens I will need to review the file.

In view of nature of the alleged offence this case is not suitable for a caution.

This case is, in my opinion, more suitable for trial in the Crown Court.

In the event that the prosecution is authorised, please obtain summonses.

When the decision has been taken please return the papers to obtain summonses.

The matters which follow are for the Investigation Manager to deal with.

No further statements need be obtained at this stage.

The following statements should be obtained:-

If the Defendant should elect trial or if the Magistrates refuse jurisdiction or if a Not
Guilty plea is entered, the Investigation Manager should obtain and associate all
necessary statements and exhibits. I list below the statements which appear to be
necessary in this case, but the Investigation Manager should also consider whether
there are any other areas which can usefully be covered and include any such

evidence.

1 Copy statement giving evidence of access confirming the Defendant's
employment with the Post Office.

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 3

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00048205
POL00048205

The Real Network

Legal Services

3° Floor

6a Eccleston Street
Victoria

LONDON SW1W 9LT

Memo

Cont...

2 Copy statement explaining the accounts and procedures for balancing both
cash accounts and the Branch Trading Statements.

3 The procedure for implementation of Branch Trading should be explained

4 The issue the Defendant raises with training is not whether she received it but
whether it was adequate. I would appreciate it if the Officer could get a
statement highlighting the training offered to Subpostmasters both initially and
the procedure adopted for Branch Trading. I have noted an E-Mail which
suggests that Miss Hamilton was not trained, why was this, is this because she
refused training or left before it could be given, if the training was offered, was
this to be taken up within a particular period of time following introduction of
Branch Trading Statements, or was it be taken up on implementation.

5 Copy statement dealing with the Horizon system and confirming that the calls
could not have attributed to the discrepancy in the accounts.

6 It may be necessary to obtain statements from other staff working at the Office.

7 Copy statement of Interviewing Officer and Officer present during interview.

8 Copy statement from Mr Woodbridge confirming that he had a conversation

with Mrs Mataru and its nature.

In this event, please prepare one set of typed copies of those statements and exhibits.
Please also prepare typed draft lists of statements and exhibits (statements to appear
in chronological order and exhibits in the same order in which they are produced by the
witnesses). A separate typed list of witnesses, showing their addresses, should also be
supplied.

You will be aware of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act
1996 concerming disclosure. Please confirm whether there is any material which might
reasonably be considered capable of undermining the Prosecution case or assisting
the Defence case and which has not already been disclosed. Please also let me have
Forms CSO06C, D and E in any event.

The papers must be sent to this Office at least 14 days before the proposed committal
proceedings or summary trial date.

It is intended to make application for compensation in the sum of £36,644.89, please
confirm this amount.Presumably the matter will be referred for confiscation. On return
of the papers, please advise cost of Special Delivery / total loss to the Business.

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 3

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
J:\criminal work folders\mcfarlane juliet - crm\253367 - hamilton\253367m2.doc

POL00048205
POL00048205
POL00048205
POL00048205

Memo

Cont...

Please consult our General Office on! GRO _ {aS soon as a date of hearing is
fixed. . A

J A McFarlane
Principal Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

Ref: CRM/253367/JMcF

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 3 of 3

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
J:\criminal work folders\mcfarlane juliet - crm\253367 - hamilton\253367m2.doc
