POL00115982
POL00115982

From: Hugh Flemington[IMCEAEX-
__O=MMS_OU=EXCHANGE+20ADMINISTRATIVE+20GROUP+20+28FYDIBOHF23SPDLT+29
_CN=RECIPIENTS, FLEMINGTON14106A9A-9886-403D-BF5B-
E08821F432B3,_ GRO }

Sent:

To: Susan
Ce: Rodric William:

Subject: Fw: Fwd: File - draft horizon statement 2.docx
Attachment: draft horizon statement 2.docx

Attachment: ATT00001.htm

Legally privileged and confidential

Ok my pc connection to ms outlook has crashed again so can't use laptop - am doing this off bb. New text and my
comments are:

The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim report into alleged
problems with the Horizon computer system which is used to record transactions in the post office branch network.

The report is being published by an external firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the Post Office last year. The
interim report is based on a review of four of 47 cases being considered.
- do we include fact here that jfsa have also been included in process?

The report confirms that no systemic problems have been found in relation to the Horizon system, but suggests that the
Post Office should examine its support and training processes for subpostmasters.
- do we want to say horizon COMPUTER system?

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised about the Horizon system and
while we do not accept all of its content or conclusions, we welcome its publication.

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so.The interim review makes clear
that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function effectively across our network. As the review
notes, it is used by around 68,000 people in more than 11,500 branches, successfully processing more than six million
transactions every day. The review underlines our cause for confidence in the overall system.

- "cause" or "concern"

"It does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some subpostmasters and we are
determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood of our business and
we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

"We therefore regret very much any concerns we may have caused to any subpostmaster who has felt that our
standards of support or training have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the Justice
for Subpostmasters Alliance for raising these issues with us.

- "any concerns subpostmasters have felt" rather the the "caused" language which might be seen as an admission by us
POL00115982
POL00115982

"In many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved support and training
but we are always open to new ways of improving how we do business to ensure the Post Office remains as trusted and
effective in its communities as it ever was.

So we will LOOK TO make further improvements in this area and take better account of individual requirements and
circumstances going forward."
- added "look to"

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed at addressing historic
issues, improving future processes and examining potential structural changes to support subpostmasters:

- i would leave it as "addressing issues and concerns raised:" - historic etc encourages people to think about claiming
unsafe conviction etc and may even give some people false hope

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of past cases started by Second Sight
last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all cases brought forward by the JFSA
and MPs, and any new themes which emerge. The JFSA will be invited to join this working party. Its report would be
completed by the autumn. (The Post Office commits to take any necessary or relevant action resulting from these
reviews).

- risk here i can see is that we are accused of ditching the independence of SS unless we use them or replace them

2. A review chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be introduced to
adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. The JFSA would be invited to take part in this review. The review would be
responsible for working to agree scope and Terms of Reference for this role or function.

3. A new Branch User Forum to provide a way for subpostmasters and others to raise concerns around business
processes, training and support at the highest level. It will be chaired by a member of our Executive Committee and
report to that committee. A key task for this forum will be to review support processes and training to ensure they meet
the standards expected of the Post Office.

Ms Vennells added: "We hope the action we are already taking in response and these additional proposals to work
collaboratively with the JFSA demonstrate our continued commitment to be open to improving the way we support all

those who work in our unrivalled branch network.

"While we as a business must take action when there is evidence of wrongdoing, I do want to ensure that there are
avenues available for subpostmasters to take which could in certain circumstances help them avoid legal proceedings."

From: Mark R Davies

Sent: Sunday, July 07, 2013 12:51 PM

To: Hugh Flemington

Subject: Fwd: File - draft horizon statement 2.docx

Hugh
Least statement, which Paula has amended.
M

Sent from my iPad
POL00115982
POL00115982

Begin forwarded message:

From: Paula Vennells I

Date: 7 July 2013 13
i Martin Edwards

t _.I Susan Crichton 1.
Subjec File - draft horizon. statement 2.docx

Mark, A few tiny adjustments - to include ref to processes as part of the 'system' being cleared.
Do we want to commit to ‘by autumn’ - if so, maybe both parties do so?

Do we want a quote from AB?

Finally, I have inserted ‘help them' in the very last para - you'll see why.

Speak soon. p
