Post Office
Invitation to Tender

IT Products Framework
OJEU Notice: 13468-2012-EN

Fujitsu Response to

Fe)
FUJITSU

POL00397418
POL00397418
POL00397418
POL00397418

Cs FUJITSU

Contents
Product - Supply..

Product - Categori

2.1. Computers and Peripherals.
2.2 Software Products
2.3. Desktop Communications (DESKTOP TELEPHONES + FAX).
2.4 Mobile Communications (SMARTPHONES, PDA'S)
2.5 Self Service Systems.
2.6 Finance Products.
2.7 Security Systems.
2.8 Specialist Equipment.
Product - Manufacturer's Guarantee and Warranty.

Products Services - Delivery and Installations......

Products Services - Configuration...

Products Services - Maintenance and Support.

Products Services - IT Project Management.
Related Services - Advisory...

Related Services - IT Procurement...

Related Services - Training...

Security Management.
Data Protection.
Health & Safety..

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 2 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

1. PRODUCT - SUPPLY

1.1 Please explain how you will procure Products for POL in a way that ensures highly competitive
pricing, and produces value for money for both small and large scale purchases, across a large
range of IT categories

Fujitsu has many long-standing, strategic and operational relationships with all Tier
1 volume hardware, service and software suppliers, and with numerous distributors
with whom we hold established trading relationships. Fujitsu can engage with over
250 suppliers to meet POL requirements to deliver value for money and reduce
TCO. Fujitsu Procurement, using our global buying power, can review and
renegotiate existing agreements, engage new suppliers, agree technology and
service roadmaps and assess cost implications.

Fujitsu Supply and Lifecycle Services (SLS) is a multi-vendor, fully integrated
Fulfilment function of Fujitsu. SLS can assist in reducing the cost of your
procurement, delivering your business objectives and providing you with vendor
independent advice on the best technologies in the market.

* By providing solutions from different vendors we can assist POL in reducing
the cost of procurement and offer unbiased advice

e Ongoing assistance keeps you updated on new technologies and
developments in the marketplace

e Supply and Lifecycle Services can provide a specialised solution in the
forecasting and scheduling of product supply to meet POL’s required delivery
dates

« We can offer best price, best availability of products and scheduling of
product supply to respond to your changing needs

e Weare able to optimise our supplier relationships to ensure we remain
flexible, meeting your demand whilst giving us the ability to minimise
speculative stock

e Weare skilled in supplying a comprehensive range of IT products (including
software) and services to a wide range of blue-chip private and public sector
customers

The existing account team will work with Fujitsu Procurement and SLS to deliver
the most appropriate and VFM products to support Post Office. The procurement
team sources product providers and can develop new supplier relationships and
SLS manages those relationships to fulfil requirements and manage the end to
end delivery.

1.2 Please explain how you will develop and assist with the design of optimal sourcing models for the
supply of IT Products including aspects such as software licensing, business wide roll-out, Product
refresh programmes and future proofing.

Fujitsu's Procurement team uses a structured approach for procurement which
through defined process steps develops the model and approach to be used to
provide the best outcome for POL. This process is applicable to any external
supply and the strategy is flexible to allow for any project size or complexity. This
process involves the following steps and can be adapted for any product type:

e Research the requirement
o Sourcing Project Research Summary

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 3 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418

POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

o Market Summary
o Market Profile by Commodity
o Summary, comments, risks and recommendations
co Identify Suppliers to whom an RFI should be issued
« Pre-Tender Investigations
o Issue RFI to identified suppliers and document responses
« Approve Business Requirement Specification
o Review as part of the Local Business Approval Review process
o Review strategy with Business Assurance
o Create project plan with key steps

e Design the Sourcing Strategy
Business Requirement
Make / Buy decision
Competitive Tender
Timetable

Suppliers

Proposed Solution
Methodology

e-Auction suitability
Supplier evaluation criteria
Identify risks.

000000000

All Fujitsu Procurement professionals attend a formalised training academy to
ensure it has a consistently high level of skilled procurement resource. The
procurement team will be supported by the appropriate Subject Matter Experts
(SMEs) to ensure that the sourcing approach followed takes full account of the
POL’s overall requirements including long term TCO aspects not simply initial
acquisition and rollout cost.

1.3 Please explain how you will leverage influence, buying power and supplier networks and use
your reputation to achieve the best value for POL

Fujitsu Global Purchasing — Fujitsu has in place a network of Global Procurement
teams whose role is to leverage the complete Fujitsu global relationship with
strategic suppliers and put in place arrangements that will deliver benefits at local
country level. This approach enables the drive for greater value from our supplier
relationships.

SupplierConnect is Fujitsu’s professional procurement service for managing a
client's supply chain from establishing initial requirements and tendering, through to
delivery and contract compliance. It allows Fujitsu to manage the supply base at
two levels; firstly, at a corporate level; leveraging the buying power it has across its
accounts, and then, at an account level; using its focused approach to meet a
customer's specific needs.

The Fujitsu Procurement Team is highly professional and qualified. It is widely
recognised across the industry that Fujitsu’s Procurement Team operates at a level
of industry leading good practice, taking care of corporate governance, risk
management and embracing continual improvement to.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 4

‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May

of 99
2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

«Assess all third party suppliers required for the provision of in-scope services

e Fully leverage Fujitsu’s existing supplier relationships to reduce cost and
increase value for money

« Work with third party suppliers to create agreements that will mitigate
potential risk or exposure

« Negotiate best value pricing, leveraging previous deals and strength of
relationship for the customer's benefit

« Run competitive tendering, where appropriate, to demonstrate best value for
money

¢ Provide a comprehensive view on current market pricing using our extensive
network of suppliers.

As we describe in our responses to questions in section 2, Fujitsu has established
relationships in the UK, often underpinned with formalised supply agreements, with
a wide range of product suppliers. Our size, and the value of business we transact,
enables us to leverage this “buying power” for the advantage of our clients.

1.4 Please explain how you will identify suppliers and establish relationships to enable POL to source
niche Products (being Products that are not available on a volume or commoditised basis or the
need for which is unique or specific to POL)

Our objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers for
POL and Fujitsu through standardised and efficient processes. Clear, well defined
procedures, together with transparent selection criteria and up to date information,
support this process.

The purpose of supplier selection (and evaluation) is to ensure that suppliers
chosen to provide products and services are aware of and able to meet our joint
expectations. This activity is part of Fujitsu’s Procurement Cycle — the “Define
Phase”.
Areas to review regarding a new or niche product supplier include:

«Financial status

e Strategic alignment

e Functional and non-functional requirements match

« Management and capability

e Innovation and quality

« Environmental, Health and Safety

e Risk Management including Disaster Recovery / Business Continuity

e Anti-Corruption and bribery

e Social Responsibility Indicators
When comparing proposals from suppliers, a scoring methodology approach is
utilised to objectively assess different proposals.

Fujitsu's identifies and promotes the best overall performing suppliers through
standardised and efficient processes as part of the Procurement Cycle:

« Proposals from suppliers are reviewed (using the ‘RFx’ process) to establish
not only is it delivering best value for the project but also are they proper and
fit to be a supplier to Fujitsu for the long term.

e Areas to review specific to the product or service include:
© Price/Procurement Cost (e.g. total cost of ownership)

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 5 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

© Quality (e.g. number of non-conformances)

o Logistics (e.g. on time deliveries)

© Technology (e.g. innovative systems and processes)
The evaluation process is conducted at least once a year. The results of the
evaluations are discussed with the suppliers. Distribution Channel — Fujitsu
Procurement has an established distribution channel strategy that ensures we have
the ability to source and deliver niche/obscure products. The strategy is reviewed
on a regular basis and channel partners are regular assessed.

1.5 Please explain how you will provide the POL with information and analysis reports to
demonstrate the actual cost of a Product over it's life span, e.g. Product supply cost incorporating
delivery, installation, maintenance, support, and any other factors that make up actual cost.

Fujitsu has a range of bespoke reports which can provide TCO or lifetime costs for
hardware and software — at a high level would include determining the following:

«the cost to acquire and install/implement
«the cost to operate
« the cost to change
* the cost to decommission
These can be further broken down in each category to:

Discrete costs: These include license costs, all staff hours directly and solely
attributable to the application, and the full cost of all infrastructure technology and
services that exists entirely to operate the specific application. These are generally
relatively simple to collect.

Aggregated costs: These include the percentage of those costs that should
reasonably be attributed to the application. For example, in a data centre using
servers dedicated to individual applications, identifying the data centre costs
attributable to an application is relatively straightforward: The costs are largely
discrete. But when dealing with a virtualised data centre, it is much more difficult to
allocate specific costs to a specific application. These include standard data centre
costs, power, floor-space and engineering, storage management costs, help desk
and general support mechanisms, as well as business continuity management,
quality assurance and security costs. The Fujitsu model uses a percentage of the
total costs based on the complexity of the application in relation to the business
design objectives

We would welcome the opportunity to discuss this further with POL as clearly our
ability to provide the full cost over the lifespan of a product would require access to
data that, if we are simply fulfilling a product supply role, we may not have.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 6 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

gay FUJITSU

2.

21

PRODUCT - CATEGORIES

[For each of the Product Categories (in this section) please provide specific and tailored information. I

Computers and Peripherals

2.1.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in
place to source Products within this category.

Fujitsu has many long-standing, strategic and operational relationships with all Tier
1 volume hardware, service and software suppliers, and with numerous distributors
with whom we hold established trading relationships. Some examples of these
supplier relationships are given below though a more extensive list is provided in
our response to question 2.1.6:

~” Cisco Systems
BT@ 2. IL DELL ec
I™ Global Crossing’ L@ I Bees

invent

LEXMARK Microsoft ORACLE SD sronacere

Each major supplier will have a dedicated Fujitsu Procurement Manager. This
ensures that we remain informed as to the suppliers’ roadmaps and have quick and
direct escalation routes in place to facilitate effective working practices.

The resource to manage quotes and orders are provided from a multi skilled and
experienced existing team who understand our fulfilment systems and processes,
and those of our major suppliers that deal with revenues of some £250m per
annum, relating to product fulfilment activity.

To add value to the order process we have a dedicated Supply and Operational
Management team, which:

* Monitors and reviews supplier operational performance and drives service
improvement plans

e Drives supplier delivery performance improvements

« Updates and manages customer delivery dates

* Minimises and controls inventory risk

* Provides buying function for hardware and software products based on
professional purchasing practice

« Works closely with our sourcing capability to establish a cost effective supply
base.

2.1.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you
to meet the requirements of POL.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 7 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

Fujitsu has key relationships with most major UK Distributors. Within Fujitsu, our
decision to use Distribution Partners is often driven by a decision between stock
availability and reducing delivery timescales or in some cases the value of the
overall order. Most large manufacturers have Authorised Distributors for their
products and steer most run rate (lower value) orders through this channel. As a
result all special bids and discount structures are applied and honoured via the
Authorised Partner.

Should our “business as usual” relationships not enable us to meet POL’s specific
requirements for Computers and Peripherals then we will mobilise staff from our
Solution Architecture professional community, working in conjunction with our
Procurement Managers, to carry out a gap analysis and identify potential suppliers
using our knowledge of the wider IT marketplace. As one of the largest providers of
IT services in the UK, and also as a manufacturer of a full range of laptops, PC,
servers and peripherals, we feel confident that we will be able to identify and fill any
gap in this area. This is a service that we carry out very regularly as part of the
overall service that we provide to large scale clients such as the Home Office,
HMRC and DVLA.

2.1.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products
that may fall within the category.

Our professional dedicated teams are responsible for the procurement of all
hardware and software requirements and ensuring we have the right procurement
routes available. We fulfil over £225m per annum of customer orders whilst
working to improve Supplier Performance Levels. To add value to the order
process we have a dedicated Supply and Operational Management team, who:

Monitor and review Supplier operational performance and drive service
improvement plans

Drive supplier delivery performance improvements
Update and manage customer delivery dates
Minimise and control inventory risk

Provide buying function for hardware and software products based on
professional purchasing practice

As a major supplier of Computers and Peripherals in the UK, either as products or
as part of a wider managed service, Fujitsu has a broad and deep understanding of
this section of the IT marketplace. We have, for example, over 1,100 Solution
Architects in our technical community in the UK that can work with our procurement
community to assist in developing appropriate strategies to provide the necessary
coverage across the scope of products.

We also have a substantial Office of the CTO (Chief Technical Officer) function
whose role includes ensuring our business remains fully informed of developing
standards, methods, architectures, technologies and suppliers. This “technology
tracking” also informs our procurement and sourcing functions to help ensure that,
at a macro level, our network of suppliers and partners develop so we can meet our
clients’ needs.

2.1.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche
thi

If a product can not be sourced directly from one of our partners, we will utilise our
existing distribution supplier network to source the product.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 8 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

Fujitsu Procurement has an established distribution channel strategy that ensures
we have the ability to source and deliver niche/obscure products. The strategy is
reviewed on a regular basis and channel partners are regular assessed.

The objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers for
Fujitsu through standardised and efficient processes. Clear, well defined
procedures, together with transparent selection criteria and up to date information,
support the processes.

The purpose of supplier selection is to ensure that suppliers chosen are aware of
and able to meet our joint requirements and expectations. It is part of Fujitsu
Sourcing’s Procurement Cycle — Define Phase.

The process is applied under two circumstances:

« The product or service requirement is new

« The product or service requirement is existing, but we are re-tendering.
Fujitsu’s objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers
through standardised and efficient processes as part of the Procurement Cycle.

« The Customer or Business defines requirements of the product or service

* Proposals from suppliers are reviewed (via the RFx process)

e Areas to review specific to the product or service include:

e Price / Procurement Cost (e.g. total cost of ownership)

* Quality (e.g. number of non-conformances)

e Logistics (e.g. on time deliveries)

« Technology (e.g. innovative systems and processes)

e Areas to review regarding a supplier include:

« Financial Status

e Strategic alignment

« Management and Capability
Type of Business Relationship

«Innovation and Quality
« Commodity Specific Areas
« Supplier Management Process (Premier Suppliers Listed only)

When comparing proposals from multiple suppliers, a scoring methodology
approach will be utilised to objectively assess the different proposals.

2.1.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire
market to provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide
value for money.

Within Fujitsu we have relationships with all mainstream manufacturers and in turn
their authorised distribution channels and have done for many years. We use a
clear Tiered Structure for all product lines which allows us to search all distribution
channels to find supply at the best price and stock where required.

Fujitsu procurement manages an annual spend in the region of £800M with a wide
range of respected 3rd party IT suppliers. This provides a high level of leverage in
terms of maximising buying power and Fujitsu achieving significant cost
advantages from suppliers.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 9 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

Fujitsu recognises the commercial benefits available from its buying power and has
established and continues to improve effective close working relationships with its
key suppliers. We work with them to meet customer demands, reviewing pricing
agreements and technology roadmaps to assess cost implications. We have a
track record of successfully driving out costs, delivering and implementing cost
reduction programmes; specifically:

.

.

Undertaking of supplier competitions to secure best value

Leveraging of wider group relationships to reduce unit costs

Supplier rationalisation programmes which deliver cost improvements
Implementation of service level agreements and key performance indicators
that meet actual and current requirements

Regular formal benchmarking

In-House Category management expertise across a range of commodities
and services providers (including but not limited to: Hardware, Software and
Services)

Innovative use of contractual agreements to minimise financial risk and
uncertainty.

Fujitsu Procurement has long-standing, strategic and operational relationships with
all Tier 1 volume hardware and software suppliers, and with numerous distributors
with whom we hold established trading relationships. Many Tier 1 suppliers have
assigned dedicated teams to work in close partnership with the Fujitsu customer
account teams to deliver the best solution to our customers at the lowest total cost
of ownership.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 10 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
@

POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

f
I 2.1.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including information

I on type and length of relationships.

Within Fujitsu we have relationships with most mainstream Manufacturers (shown below), and in turn their
authorised distribution channels, and have done for many years. We use a clear Tiered Structure for all
product lines, which allows us to search all distribution channels to find supply at the best price and stock
where required. We work with all our Supply Partners collaboratively which means we have excellent
working relationships ensuring communication, supply and queries can be dealt with quickly by dedicated
Fujitsu support teams.We are continually revisiting our supplier network with some relationships lasting over
ten years whilst others are more recent and have been specific opportunity driven.

AVEPOINT INCORPORATED
EMPIRIX UK

LEXMARK INTERNATIONAL
PERCUSSION SOFTWARE
SOFTWARE AG (UK)
AVNET TECHNOLOGY
SOLUTIONS

EOS SYSTEMS
LOGICALIS COMPUTING
SOLUTIONS

PITNEY BOWES.
SOFTWARE BOX

AXIAL SYSTEMS

EQUISYS UK

LOUD & BOW

PROGRESS SOFTWARE UK
SOPHOS

BARRON McCANN
TECHNOLOGY
EUROSOFT (UK)

MARKIT GROUP

PROPAK SHEET METAL
SPSS UK

BECRYPT

EXCITECH COMPUTERS
MASS INFORMATION
SYSTEMS

PTC SOFTWARE

ST JOHN TECHNOLOGY CO
BLADETEC

EXPERIAN

MAXA TECHNOLOGIES
QAS

STONEWOOD GROUP
BLANCCO UK

FUJITSU AUSTRALIA
MAYFLEX

QBS SOFTWARE
SUNGUARD PUBLIC
SECTOR

BMC SOFTWARE

DISTRIBUTION BV
SOLUTIONS (FNETS)
MERIDIO

Q-MATIC UK

SURFRAY A/S

BOCADA INC.

FUJITSU TECHNOLOGY
SOLUTIONS
MESSAGELABS

QUEST SOFTWARE (UK)
SYBASE (UK)

BOLDON JAMES

FUJITSU
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
EUROPE

METASTORM

RESPOND UK PLC
SYMANTEC

BOX TECHNOLOGIES
GIGABYTE TECHNOLOGY
METRON TECHNOLOGY
RIVERBED TECHNOLOGY
INC

SYMBOL

BULL INFORMATION
SYSTEMS

GUIDANCE SOFTWARE INC
MICRO FOCUS

RMS MANAGED ICT
SECURITY

SYNCSORT

BUSINESS SYSTEMS
INTERNATIONAL
HEWLETT PACKARD
MICRO P

ROGUE WAVE SOFTWARE
THALES E-SECURITY
CARBON CONTROL
SOFTWARE

HYPERTEC

MIDWICH

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited

‘Commercial in Confidence

S&T BILISIM COZUMLERI AS
TOP IMAGE SYSTEMS
(2007) UK

CARD PERSONALISATION
SOLUTIONS

12

MISCO COMPUTER
SUPPLIES

S4 SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS
TRAMS

CASH BASES (GB)

IBM (UK)

MIX TELEMATICS UK

SAA CONSULTANTS
VERIZON UK

CENTENNIAL SOFTWARE
NCC GROUP

SAP (UK)

WEBSPY

CHANGEBASE

ICM BUSINESS
CONTINUITY SERVICES
NDI TECHNOLOGIES
SAPPHIRE SYSTEMS PLC.
WEST COAST .

CISCO SYSTEMS

CON

NDL-METASCYBE

SARIAN SYSTEMS
WESTCON UK
CODEWORK

INFOR GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
NEC DISPLAY SOLUTIONS
EUROPE GMBH

SAS SOFTWARE
WORKSHARE
COMPONENT SOURCE
INFORMATICA SOFTWARE
NETWORK UTILITIES
SATISNET

Page 11 of 99
28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

ES FUJITSU

2.2 Software Products

2.2.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to I
source Products within this category.

Fujitsu has many long-standing, strategic and operational relationships with all Tier 1
volume hardware, service and software suppliers, and with numerous distributors with
whom we hold established trading relationships. Some examples of these supplier
relationships are:

fa) Cisco Systems r ) symantec.

I @ I PEs I rl NetApp

LEXM,\RK Micresoft DRACLE oe STORAGETEK

Resource to manage quotes and orders are provided from a multi skilled and experienced
existing team who understand our fulfilment systems and processes, and those of our
major suppliers that deal with revenues of some £250m per annum, relating to fulfilment
activity.

The approach we follow when sourcing products from this category (e.g. Software
products) is based upon the best practice approach that described in our response to
2.1.1.

This approach is aided through Fujitsu’s numerous accreditations. These include:

Citrix Gold Partner

McAfee Authorised Reseller

Novell Business Expert Reseller
Platinum Systems House

Peregrine (HP) Global Alliance Partner
Authorised Reseller

SAP Authorised Reseller

Seagate Software Authorised Reseller

Siebel Global Solutions Partner

BMC Elite Reseller

Fujitsu also has a well-established relationship with Microsoft as one of a small number of
Globally Managed Microsoft Gold Partners with dedicated Microsoft account management
in all regions across the globe.
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Fujitsu is also an Oracle Global Alliance Partner, a member of the Oracle Partner Network
and an Oracle Diamond Partner (their highest Global level) with over 40 specialisations
covering the entire stack from Operating Systems, Oracle Database, Fusion Middleware,
Business Intelligence and Applications.

Fujitsu is also one of CA's top 5 partners working with CA as a strategic technology
partner for the provision of infrastructure management tools covering: Identity and Access
Management, IT Asset Management, Project and Portfolio Management, Service
Availability, Service Support, Service Desks.

In summary we believe that our in-house technical capability and extensive relationships
with software vendors across the marketplace will enable us to utilise this network to meet
POL’s developing requirements.

I 2.2.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fil gaps within your networks that will allow you to
I meet the requirements of POL.

Fujitsu has key relationships with most major software providers, as shown in our
response to 2.2.1, as well as major UK Distributors. Within Fujitsu, our decision to use
Distribution Partners is often driven by a decision between stock availability and reducing
delivery timescales or in some cases the value of the overall order. Most large suppliers
have Authorised Distributors for their products and steer most run rate (lower value)

orders through this channel.

In our response to 2.1.2 we described our approach to filling gaps in our network to meet
the requirements of POL. We would also use this approach in the area of software
fulfilment.

It is also worth noting that Fujitsu's business is based upon designing, building and
operating a wide range of large and complex client systems. To that end we are
constantly tracking developments in the market place and working with software vendors
(with them in either a sub-contractor or supplier role) to meet the ongoing needs of our
clients both in the UK and beyond. This provides us with a very good understanding of
the way in which the marketplace is developing and motivates us to ensure we have the
contacts, networks and partnerships in place to meet the needs of our wide client base.

Fujitsu also actively engages with, and supports, many Independent Software Vendors
(ISV), who bring new and innovative solutions to the table. Through our ISV Framework
Programmes we present opportunities for our customers to take advantage of these
innovative products whilst protecting them from the risks these smaller companies can
present.

The above, coupled with our long term relationship with POL, means we therefore have
both the depth and breadth of understanding required to identify and fill any gaps.

I 2.2.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may
thin th I

I
Our professional dedicated teams are responsible for the procurement of all software
requirements and ensuring we have the right procurement routes available. We fulfil over
£225m per annum of customer orders whilst working to improve Supplier Performance
Levels. To add value to the order process we have a dedicated Supply and Operational
Management team, who:

« Monitor and review Supplier operational performance and drive service
improvement plans

e Drive supplier delivery performance improvements

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 13 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

« Update and manage customer delivery dates

« Minimise and control inventory risk

e Provide buying function for hardware and software products based on professional
purchasing practice

As can be seen in our response to 2.2.1 and 2.2.7 we already have very extensive
relationships in place with software vendors, which we can utilise to address POL’s
requirements.

It should also be noted that Fujitsu, in the UK provides, Application Services that
encompass the selection and deployment of new applications, the integration of
proprietary applications and the support and enhancement of legacy applications. Fujitsu
has been delivering effective, efficient and reliable Application Services to major Public
and Private Sector organisations, for over 40 years and has built up a significant capability
that underpins our Application Offering. This also provides us with both a general, and
specific, understanding of the evolving software vendor landscape that can be harnessed
to POL’s advantage and ensure good coverage across the scope of products.

I 2.2.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

If a software product cannot be sourced directly from one of our partners, we will utilise
our existing Distribution supplier network to source the product.

Fujitsu Procurement has an established distribution channel strategy that ensures we
have the ability to source and deliver niche/obscure products. The strategy is reviewed on
a regular basis and channel partners are regular assessed.

The objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers for Fujitsu
through standardised and efficient processes. Clear, well defined procedures, together
with transparent selection criteria and up to date information, support the processes.

The purpose of supplier selection is to ensure that suppliers chosen are aware of and
able to meet our joint requirements and expectations. It is part of Fujitsu Sourcing’s
Procurement Cycle — Define Phase.

The process is applied under two circumstances:

e The product or service requirement is new

e The product or service requirement is existing, but we are re-tendering.
Fujitsu’s objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers through
standardised and efficient processes as part of the Procurement Cycle.

« The Customer or Business defines requirements of the product

e Proposals from suppliers are reviewed (via the RFx process)

« Areas to review specific to the product or service include:

o Price / Procurement Cost (e.g. total cost of ownership)

Quality (e.g. number of non-conformances)
Logistics (e.g. on time deliveries)
Technology (e.g. innovative systems and processes)
Areas to review regarding a supplier include:
Financial Status

00000

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 14 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Strategic alignment
Management and Capability
Type of Business Relationship
Innovation and Quality
Commodity Specific Areas
Supplier Management Process

000000

In our response to question 2.2.2 we briefly describe our ISV Framework that can also be
utilised to identify suppliers for non-stand or niche products.

I 2.2.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to
I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money.

Within Fujitsu we have relationships with most mainstream software suppliers and in turn
their authorised distribution channels and have done for many years. We use a clear
Tiered Structure for all product lines which allows us to search all distribution channels to
find supply at the best price and stock where required.

Fujitsu procurement manages an annual spend in the region of £800M with a wide range
of respected 3rd party IT suppliers. This provides a high level of leverage in terms of
maximising buying power and Fujitsu achieving significant cost advantages from
suppliers.

Fujitsu recognises the commercial benefits available from its buying power and has
established and continues to improve effective close working relationships with its key
suppliers. We work with them to meet customer demands, reviewing pricing agreements
and technology roadmaps to assess cost implications. We have a track record of
successfully driving out costs, delivering and implementing cost reduction programmes;
specifically:

e Undertaking of supplier competitions to secure best value

e Leveraging of wider group relationships to reduce unit costs

e Supplier rationalisation programmes which deliver cost improvements

« Implementation of service level agreements and key performance indicators that
meet actual and current requirements

¢ Formal benchmarking

« In-House Category management expertise across a range of commodities and
services providers (including but not limited to: Hardware, Software and Services)

« Innovative use of contractual agreements to minimise financial risk and uncertainty.

Fujitsu Procurement has long-standing, strategic and operational relationships with all
Tier 1 volume hardware and software suppliers, and with numerous distributors with
whom we hold established trading relationships. Many Tier 1 suppliers have assigned
dedicated teams to work in close partnership with the Fujitsu customer account teams to
deliver the best solution to our customers at the lowest total cost of ownership.

I 2.2.6 Provide information on licensing models for POL. to utilise, including any flexibility provided for within
I these models

Fujitsu has relationships with every global software vendor and also engages specialist
Software Consultants to utilise their expertise to provide advice to clients and ensure they

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 15 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

have the right software licensing to suit a broad range of requirements. Our preferred
software consultants will work with the Post Office to build the optimum licensing model to
enable them deliver both competitively and effectively on high profile and highly complex
requirements into customers, both dedicated and in the private cloud.

Once requirements have been established in full, Fujitsu will provide information and
advice, based on their extensive experience and supplier relationships, to obtain the
optimum licensing models both in terms of Licensing Programs and how to license
individual products based on their accumulated knowledge of products and licensing
schemes available.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 16 of 99

‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

foe)

FUJITSU

2.2.7 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including information on type
and length of relationships

Within Fujitsu we have relationships with most mainstream software providers and their authorised distribution
channels and have done for many years. We use a clear Tiered Structure for all product lines. We work with all
our Supply Partners collaboratively which means we have excellent working relationships. We are continually
revisiting our supplier network with some relationships lasting over ten years whilst others are more recent and
have been specific opportunity driven.

3D LASER MAPPING
ABM UNITED KINGDOM
ACCESS IS

ACCO UK

AEP NETWORKS
ALCHEMY SOLUTIONS
AMI EDUCATION
ARROW

ARTEMIS
CORPORATION

ASM.

AUTO TIME SYSTEMS
NORTHERN
AVEPOINT

AVNET TECHNOLOGY
AXIAL SYSTEMS
BARRON MCCANN
TECHNOLOGY
BECRYPT

BLADETEC

BLANCCO UK

BMC SOFTWARE
DISTRIBUTION BV.
BOCADA .

BOLDON JAMES

BOX TECHNOLOGIES
BULL

CARBON CONTROL
SOFTWARE

CARD
PERSONALISATION
SOLUTIONS

CASH BASES (GB)
CENTENNIAL
SOFTWARE
CHANGEBASE

CISCO SYSTEMS
CODEWORK
COMPONENT SOURCE
COMPUTER 2000
COMPUTER ASSOCIATES
COMPUTERLINKS.
COMPUTERS UN
COMSTOR

CRITICAL PATH DATA
CENTRE

DATA INTEGRATION
DELL COMPUTERS
DEVOTEAM UK
DOLPHIN SYSTEMS
EDIFY CORPORATION
EMB SOFTWARE
EMPIRIX UK

EOS SYSTEMS

EQUISYS UK
EUROSOFT (UK)
EXCITECH COMPUTERS
EXPERIAN

GIGABYTE
TECHNOLOGY
GUIDANCE SOFTWARE
HEWLETT PACKARD
HYPERTEC

12

IBM (UK)

ICM BUSINESS
CONTINUITY SERVICES
ICON

INFOR GLOBAL
INFORMATICA
INFRAVISION
INGENICO FORTRONIC
INGRAM MICRO UK
INSIGHT DIRECT (UK)
INTEGRAL MEMORY PLC
INTEGRALIS
INTEGRATED
DOCUMENT SOLUTIONS
INTEGREX

JETICO. OY

JURIBA

LEICA GEOSYSTEMS
LENOVO TECHNOLOGY
LEXMARK LOGICALIS
LOUD & BOW

MARKIT GROUP

MASS INFORMATION
SYSTEMS

MAXA TECHNOLOGIES
MAYFLEX

MERIDIO
MESSAGELABS

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited

Commercial in Confidence

METASTORM

METRON TECHNOLOGY
MICRO FOCUS

MICRO P

MIDWICH

MISCO COMPUTER
SUPPLIES.

MIX TELEMATICS UK
NCC GROUP

NDI TECHNOLOGIES
NDL-METASCYBE

NEC DISPLAY
SOLUTIONS EUROPE
GMBH

NETWORK UTILITIES
NIMANS.

NOETIX CORPORATION
NORTHAMBER PLC
NORTHGATE
INFORMATION
SOLUTIONS UK
NVIRON

OCE FINANCE

OPALIS SOFTWARE .
OPNET TECHNOLOGIES
ORACLE UK

P&C
COMMUNICATIONS
PAPER RIVER
CONSULTING
PASSLOGIX
PERCUSSION
SOFTWARE

PITNEY BOWES
PROGRESS SOFTWARE
PROPAK SHEET METAL
PTC SOFTWARE

QAS

QBS SOFTWARE
Q-MATIC UK

QUEST SOFTWARE (UK)
RESPOND UK PLC
RIVERBED TECHNOLOGY
RMS MANAGED ICT
SECURITY

ROGUE WAVE

SOFTWARE UK

S&T BILISIM
COZUMLERI AS

S4 SOFTWARE
SOLUTIONS

SAA CONSULTANTS
SAP (UK)

SAPPHIRE SYSTEMS PLC
SARIAN SYSTEMS.
SAS SOFTWARE
SATISNET
SCANSOURCE UK
SCHNIDER ELECTRIC
SD GROUP

SECURE DATA MEDIA
SECURITY SERVICES
GROUP

SELEX
COMMUNICATIONS
SERENA SOFTWARE
SIGHT & SOUND
TECHNOLOGY
SIGMA SOFTWARE
SINCLAIR VOICENET
SKYMARK PACKAGING
INTERNATIONAL
SNMP RESEARCH
INTERNATIONAL
SOFTWARE AG (UK)
SOFTWARE BOX
SOPHOS

SPSS UK

ST JOHN TECHNOLOGY
STONEWOOD GROUP
SUNGUARD SURFRAY
SYBASE (UK)
SYMANTEC

SYMBOL

SYNCSORT

THALES E-SECURITY
TOP IMAGE SYSTEMS.
TRAMS

VERIZON UK
WEBSPY

WEST COAST.
WESTCON UK

Page 17 of 99
16 May 2012
~ © Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited

‘Commercial in Confidence

Fe)
FUJITSU

POL00397418
POL00397418

"Page 18 of 99.

28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@®

oe)
FUJITSU

2.3 Desktop Communications (DESKTOP TELEPHONES + FAX)

I 2.3.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to I

I source Products within this category.

Fujitsu has a dedicated Hosting and Networks services business unit. This team has
developed strategic long term relationships with all key providers in this area including
providers such as CISCO and Mitel for products and Talk Talk, Virgin, BT and Level 3 for
network services. Therefore Fujitsu has many long-standing, strategic and operational
relationships with all Tier 1 volume hardware, service and software suppliers, and with
numerous distributors with whom we hold established trading relationships. Some
examples of these supplier relationships where we work with partners in the
communications and networks area are shown below:

CONNECTIVITY CONNECTIVITY CONNECTIVITY.
TIER 1 - GLOBAL TIER 2— MULTI REGIONAL TIER 3 - COUNTRY (E.G. UK)

\— ») SingTel

ay ee,
LINX cal

Deutsche
Telekom

+ Intemet Peering via London

Sp wat Vee
P tho Gat”
mata rn a +

Leadership with teust

> Fujitsu MPLS

BH Unper OPMITeL
r a Lerwoms . —J—

Fujitsu

INFRASTRUTURE

fa) redst n

Resource to manage quotes and orders are provided from a multi skilled and experienced
existing team who understand our fulfilment systems and processes, and those of our
major suppliers.

Each of the major suppliers will have a dedicated Fujitsu Procurement Manager. This
ensures that we remain informed as to the suppliers’ roadmaps and have quick and direct
escalations routes in place to facilitate effective working together.

For example, Fujitsu is a Global Cisco Gold partner, and we have Cisco Multinational
Partner Status, meaning we can source equipment and services at an optimal and
preferential discount rate.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 19 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 16 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 2.3.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
I meet the requirements of POL

Fujitsu has key relationships with most Major UK Distributors. Within Fujitsu, our decision
to use Distribution Partners is often driven by a decision between stock availability and
reducing delivery timescales or in some cases the value of the overall order. Most large
manufacturers have Authorised Distributors for their products and steer most run rate
(lower value) orders through this channel. As a result all special bids and discount
structures are applied and honoured via the Authorised Partner.

Should our “business as usual” relationships not enable us to meet POL’s specific
requirements for Desktop Communications products, we will mobilise staff from our
Solution Architecture professional community, working in conjunction with our
Procurement Managers, to carry out a gap analysis and identify potential suppliers using
our knowledge of the wider IT marketplace. As one of the largest providers of IT and
network services in the UK we feel confident that we will be able to identify and fill any
gaps in this area.

I 2.3.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may I
I fall within the category. I

Our professional dedicated teams are responsible for the procurement of all hardware
and software requirements and ensuring we have the right procurement routes available.
We fulfil over £225m per annum of customer orders whilst working to improve Supplier
Performance Levels. To add value to the order process we have a dedicated Supply and
Operational Management team, who:

¢ Monitor and review Supplier operational performance and drive service
improvement plans
« Drive supplier delivery performance improvements
« Update and manage customer delivery dates
¢ Minimise and control inventory risk
e Provide buying function for hardware and software products based on professional
purchasing practice
Our procurement team will be supported by our Network Services specialists. Fujitsu is
itself a network operator, managing customer networks for over twenty years. We design,
build, manage and maintain complex networks for public and private sector customers,
covering voice, data, local and wide area networks and benefiting from third party
bandwidth services to provide a secure communications infrastructure that underpins
business processes. This in house understanding of the communications marketplace
can be used to facilitate good coverage in this product area.

I 2.3.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

If a desktop communications products can not be sourced directly from one of our
partners, we will utilise our existing Distribution supplier network to source the product.

Fujitsu Procurement has an established distribution channel strategy that ensures we
have the ability to source and deliver niche/obscure products. The strategy is reviewed on
a regular basis and channel partners are regular assessed.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 20 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

The objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers for Fujitsu
through standardised and efficient processes. Clear, well defined procedures, together
with transparent selection criteria and up to date information, support the processes.

The purpose of supplier selection is to ensure that suppliers chosen are aware of and
able to meet our joint requirements and expectations. It is part of Fujitsu Sourcing’s
Procurement Cycle — Define Phase.

The process is applied under two circumstances:

« The product or service requirement is new

« The product or service requirement is existing, but we are re-tendering.
Fujitsu’s objective is to identify and promote the best overall performing suppliers through
standardised and efficient processes as part of the Procurement Cycle.

« The Customer or Business defines requirements of the product or service

* Proposals from suppliers are reviewed (via the RFx process)

e Areas to review specific to the product or service include:

« Price / Procurement Cost (e.g. total cost of ownership)

* Quality (e.g. number of non-conformances)

e Logistics (e.g. on time deliveries)

« Technology (e.g. innovative systems and processes)

« Areas to review regarding a supplier include:

« Financial Status

e Strategic alignment

« Management and Capability

Type of Business Relationship
«Innovation and Quality

« Commodity Specific Areas
¢ Supplier Management Process

When comparing proposals from multiple suppliers, a scoring methodology approach will
be utilised to objectively assess the different proposals.

I 2.3.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to

I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money. I
Within Fujitsu we have relationships with all mainstream Manufacturers and in turn their
authorised distribution channels and have done for many years. We use a clear Tiered
Structure for all product lines which allows us to search all distribution channels to find
supply at the best price and stock where required.

Fujitsu procurement manages an annual spend in the region of £800M with a wide range
of respected 3rd party IT suppliers. This provides a high level of leverage in terms of
maximising buying power and Fujitsu achieving significant cost advantages from
suppliers.

Fujitsu recognises the commercial benefits available from its buying power and has
established and continues to improve effective close working relationships with its key
suppliers. We work with them to meet customer demands, reviewing pricing agreements
and technology roadmaps to assess cost implications. We have a track record of

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 21 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

2.4

successfully driving out costs, delivering and implementing cost reduction programmes;
specifically:

e Undertaking of supplier competitions to secure best value

« Leveraging of wider group relationships to reduce unit costs

« Supplier rationalisation programmes which deliver cost improvements

e Implementation of service level agreements and key performance indicators that
meet actual and current requirements

« In-House Category management expertise across a range of commodities and
services providers (including but not limited to: Hardware, Software and Services)

¢ Innovative use of contractual agreements to minimise financial risk and uncertainty.

I 2.3.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including
I information on type and length of relationships.

Within Fujitsu we have relationships with all mainstream Manufacturers and in turn their
authorised distribution channels and have done for many years. We use a Clear Tiered
Structure for all product lines which allows us to search all distribution channels to find
supply at the best price and stock where required. We work with all our Supply Partners
collaboratively which means we have excellent working relationships ensuring
communication, supply and queries can be dealt with quickly by dedicated Fujitsu support
teams. Please see our response to question 2.3.1 where we have detailed a number of
alliance partners and key suppliers.

Mobile Communications (SMARTPHONES, PDA'S)

I 2.4.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to I

I source Products within this category.

Fujitsu, as a global ICT service provider, has existing and mature partnerships in place
with most market leading and market influencing mobile industry companies and
organisations. Fujitsu has the capability to source mobile products from a variety of
channels ensuring that the cost, choice and supply availability is always competitive,
relevant and reliable to our end customers.

Fujitsu can provide a fully end to end mobile service for POL. Fujitsu, for example, is
mobile network and device agnostic, not restricted to any one vendor or provider. The
Fujitsu Cloud Connect “Managed Mobile” service includes the provision and full lifecycle
of mobile products (cell phones, smart phones and consumer tablets) including modular
options sold on a pay per use basis — procurement (Capex or leasing options available),
initial configuration, secure storage, delivery, break fix, Mobile Device Management,
Telecom Expense Management, mobile security, secure push email, mobile Data Loss
Prevention, private mobile application store and delivery, auditing, mobile app
development and management. This service is supported by Fujitsu global service
desks.

Fujitsu also produces mobile products of their own such as tablet computers: Fujitsu has
been manufacturing tablet devices for over 20 years and are currently on their 25th
generation Stylistic range. These are aimed at the business user and include pre-loaded
Office compatible applications and security features.

Fujitsu also has long standing partnerships with the main commercial tablet PCs
manufacturers including Dell, HP and Lenovo.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 22 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 2.4.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
I meet the requirements of POL.

Fujitsu is constantly reviewing product capability, industry trends and roadmaps. Fujitsu
also play a proactive part in numerous industry bodies. Through Fujitsu sponsored
groups and publications (such CIO Connect) Fujitsu brings thought leadership, guidance
and experience to the ICT industry.

An example of this is Fujitsu’s current leadership position in the Bring Your Own Device
strategy currently causing disruption and change in the market.

Through our Mobile Phone Unit in Japan Fujitsu shapes and drive technology within the
global mobile industry. Our devices are adopted, rebranded and distributed by leading
mobile device suppliers in Asia E.g. Docomo

Fujitsu would seek to work with POL as a partner to understand POL requirements and
share our in depth industry knowledge to help POL achieve their business goals in
mobility.

2.4.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may I
fall within the category.

Fujitsu would keep a proactive view of POL mobile requirements to ensure our mobile
portfolio always provided POL with the right tool for the right job. As Fujitsu is a mobile
network operator and vendor agnostic we believe that we can always best match POL
needs. Our Sourcing team and supply chain partners operate industry benchmark
processes to ensure that Fujitsu only ever provide the most competitive pricing. Due to
our scale we command the most competitive wholesale pricing and can secure supply
pipeline for POL.

I 2.4.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

Fujitsu has a vast number of supply partners offering a variety of mobile devices. From
mainstream device suppliers to niche product manufacturers such as ruggedized
handsets, water proof products, secure products with CESG level compliance,
accessibility products etc. If POL has a requirement which is not covered within out
portfolio then Fujitsu can call on our innovation partners (including our own Fujitsu Labs
group) at a global level to source the product which POL require. Due to our size and
stature Fujitsu can often influence features and functionality of device roadmaps.

I 2.4.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to
I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money. I

Fujitsu regularly evaluate all our suppliers and partners as part of partner program. Our
SLS department and our product and offering managers are tasked with benchmarking
targets. Fujitsu only do business with partners who can support and enhance our own
high standards of product quality and reliability whilst providing the necessary return on
investment that POL will demand. Fujitsu will work closely with POL to ascertain and help
set requirements. Fujitsu would identify and suggest alternatives to POL if Fujitsu felt that
POL would benefit as a result.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 23 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[
I 2.4.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including
I information on type and length of relationships.

We have relationships with most key vendors in the mobile communications arena
including:
02: Which Fujitsu uses for its own internal mobile services provision. We have had a

relationship with O2 since their inception as a result of their demerger from British
Telecom in 2001.

Everything Everywhere: The conglomeration of T-Mobile and Orange creating the UK's
largest communication company. Fujitsu has had a relationship since their inception in
2010 with the ability to resell devices and network services.

Vodafone: Vodafone were the first cellular network to launch in the UK and Fujitsu has
a relationship with Vodafone that stretches back 10 years.

Research in Motion (RIM): Fujitsu has an EMEA relationship with Rim as an Elite
Partner with the ability to resell Blackberry licensed software, product and services.

Noki

Microsoft: A strategic global partner. We believe that Windows Phone 8 has the
potential to change the mobile enterprise landscape further.

ujitsu is an active member of the Nokia Symbian alliance.

Zenprise: Fujitsu has a global partnership agreement in place with Zenprise. Zenprise
are a specialist Mobile Device Management ISV and a Gartner leader for MDM. The
Zenprise DSM product is the technology at the heart of Fujitsu’s Managed Mobile MDM
service component.

NICE Business Solutions: Fujitsu has a stake in this UK based mobile app development
and management specialist.

Motorola: Fujitsu has enjoyed a long term partnership with Motorola to deliver ruggedized
niche products to various industry customers including emergency services and field
engineering.

Websense: An alliance partner since 2010. Specialists in web and cloud based content
filtering. Fujitsu will bring this capability to mobile devices.

Natterbox : Fujitsu launched a new mobile device recording service this year which
provides financial institutions compliance to the latest FSA requirements. The partnership
uniquely combines Natterbox’s market-leading, cloud-based recording and retention
product with Fujitsu’s global telecoms expertise, international network of service desks,
data centres and world-class business continuity services.

Fujitsu UK Sourcing & Logistics (SLS): Fujitsu’s own UK based channel alliance
management team. With direct access to several UK channel wholesale mobile device
resellers, providing procurement options for all mainstream mobile devices (including
Apple products). SLS also provides bulk mobile device configuration, on-site stock
storage and delivery services.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 24 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

2.5 Self Service Systems

2.5.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to I
source Products within this category. I

As one of the longest established and global leaders in self service, Fujitsu has a vast
network of partners at their disposal. These partners are listed into specific categories
such as; Core Strategic partners - example partnerships include Intel and Microsoft;
Technology partners for Touch Screens, scanners, cash handling. Many of these
partnerships have existed from our very first self service product launch.

Fujitsu not only provides its own products to the market but also supports an ever
expanding portfolio of third party products, software and services. In addition to providing
“commercially-off-the-shelf’ COTS solutions, Fujitsu has a well proven track record in
delivering solutions designed specifically to meet the needs of an individual business or
need. We have combined our retail-proven components with customised enclosures to
create the most flexible, reliable and cost-effective kiosk solutions available today. As a
technology provider and as a reseller of other company’s technologies, we are always
looking to the market or to the research labs for products or services that need
investment or large company expertise in order for these products and services to come
to life.

Today we are working in partnership with our customers to revolutionise the self service
industry. For example, in telecommunications retailing we have worked with Vodafone to
bring to the market a fully automated “store-in-a-box’ intelligent vending machine that
assists shoppers to select a mobile phone and tariff and then to have the products
dispensed without the need for any interaction with store personnel. In the retail industry
we are creating a grocery self check out experience with a totally automated scan and
payment solution, and in hospitality we have worked with clients and technology partners
to deliver the 1st fully integrated “at table” order and pay service for which Fujitsu and our
client received an industry award.

2.5.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
meet the requirements of POL.

Fujitsu invests heavily into its own R&D with an annual spend in excess of £1.8Bn. As a
true technology partner we provide consultancy and market knowledge to many of our
key strategic manufacturing partners, and it is common for Fujitsu to co-develop a product
or solution with a partner and co own the IPR or act purely as an investment interest.

As Fujitsu do not rely on any one channel segment for its business, we have a vast
knowledge and core expertise in delivering solutions that POL currently promote such as
Government Services, Financial Services and Retail Services to name just a few. Our
wide experience also allows us to leverage best practise and innovation from other
sectors in the provision of services to Post Office, and enables us to access a vast field of
key players within the Self Service market.

This expertise has already been leveraged in our current, long standing contract with POL
where our channel experts have acted as consultants in order to shortcut some of the
complexity in delivering these services. As a provider of services and support to not only
the UK market, we are always looking for services outside the UK that may be of benefit
to our UK customers; as an example, our Japanese sector's knowledge in the use of NFC
on mobile phones is ahead of the curve and has actual live experience that could prove
to be invaluable to POL.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 25 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

ne) FUJITSU

Our knowledge and experience as a provider and integrator of self-service systems
ensures that we have a detailed understanding of the marketplace and the supplier
community within it. We can exploit this knowledge to identify and fill any gaps.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited - Page 26 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

ne) FUJITSU

[2.5.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may I
I fall within the category. I
Fujitsu currently provides self service kiosks for many businesses around the globe. A

few examples of the products are described below.

u wll

Post & Pay Kiosks - a device that weighs letters and packages, calculates the correct
postage fee(s) takes payment via cash or card, issues postage labels and transaction
receipts, accepts letters and packages into a drop box situated within the unit, or
separately. The kiosk has a very intuitive and simple user-interface (please see case
study on Jersey Post). Fujitsu has developed the hardware and the application that runs
on the kiosk.

Concierge — a package of individual business applications that may be deployed on a
singular kiosk or a mixed estate of screen sizes and enclosure formats. Applications
include — Queue management, Post & Go, Print & Go, Access Government, Find a job,
Pay a bill, eTopUp and a variety of 3rd party services. These devices can also print
documents, send to a networked printer or email address if required.

Self Check Out (SCO) — a family of kiosks from a small wall mounted web enabled kiosk
through to large full service kiosks designed for the grocery market. Each SCO uses the
same core components as in our traditional kiosks.

iVending —a traditional family of vending machines that have been enhanced to include
interactive content via a touch screen. These devices today dispense mobile phones,
accessories and SIM cards. Fujitsu has been in discussions with other Postal Operators
to deliver this solution for collectors’ stamps, pre-boxed stamps, envelopes and many
other related products.

We will utilise the knowledge and understanding that has been acquired through the
above to ensure a good coverage of scope of POL’s likely requirements.

“© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Rage 27 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

f
I 2.5.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

As a true manufacturer of self service devices, Fujitsu is well positioned to accurately
understand the complexities involved when designing, building and supporting these
devices in a public space. On many occasions Fujitsu is engaged as technology or
application consultants very early in the scoping of the project. At these discovery stages
we would be looking at the potential benefits or problem areas that will be uncovered
through the different stages of the project and selecting the best partner network to
deliver true value and minimal risk to our client and/or their partners.

Fujitsu works with a small army of Value Added Resellers, System Integrators,
Independent Software Vendors and Application Developers here in the UK and in the
wider global market. Many of these relationships date back to our first entry into self
service and enable us to respond quickly to any request, whether standard or non-
standard. The above resources can be mobilised to address POL’s requirements and
identify and non-standard or niche product suppliers should they be required.

Jersey Post Office’s Network Business Manager, Neil Harrison comments, “Our main
philosophy is to increase access for our customers.
Fujitsu postal kiosks have given us an ideal
opportunity to do this. They are quick and efficient
the transactions are completed in a matter of
seconds. Payment processing service is fully
integrated with the Fujitsu kiosk, boosting the kiosk’s
overall efficiency.” The JerseyPost Kiosks provide
functionality to weigh, price and post letters and
parcels internationally, as well as the ability to
process bill payments. These kiosks have been in situ
2007.

The

and

since

I 2.5.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to
I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money. I

As POL invests in new technology and increasingly deploys new operating environments,
there will be a need for service partners who can design, implement, and manage this
new generation of technology. In addition to providing leading edge retail technology
solutions, Fujitsu can also provide POL with access to the specialised skills and expertise
needed to complete large-scale IT projects on time and within budget, and to maintain
and support the systems once installed. Fujitsu’s service capability has been organised
around the principle that a customer should worry about how to run its’ business, not the
systems supporting the business. Fujitsu has invested heavily in developing the skills,
expertise and knowledge its service professionals need to support a vast array of retail
and IT technology solutions.

As a lead player in the biometrics and securities space, we can leverage our experience
of dealing with these high risk areas and bring substantial cost benefits to play.

Our knowledge of the many issues facing regulatory approvals required for the
transactions via credit/debit cards and the latest developments in mobile payments and
NFC is one of the very best in the industry. We have a vast network of hardware,
software, cloud and support organisations that we work with on a daily basis.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 28 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

ne) FUJITSU

Fujitsu has a long history of responding to requirements developed in partnership with
POL with solutions which meet or exceed business requirements, are confirmed by POL
as high quality and provide good value for money over the entire service life.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited - Page 29 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 2.5.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including

I information on type and length of relationships.

Vodafone is s constantly looking for new ways to drive customer interaction and enhance the service

that they offer. Research found that people were not at all averse to
spending a reasonable amount of money through a self service
machine. In fact, most were often prepared to pay more for the
convenience. Vodafone says, “Our relationship with Fujitsu is built

with confidence, because it has always helped us achieve our goals, or

explained why it wasn't possible. The main reason is that Fujitsu
understands the way we work - our IT needs, procedures and
business. What Fujitsu doesn't know about kiosks isn’t worth
knowing. It's relentless and does whatever it takes to make things
happen.” We have worked with and still provide products and/or
services to Postal Specialists such as Escher (RiPoste) and Ascent (Swift Post). As one of the
longest established and global leaders in self service RPG has a vast network of partners at their
disposal. Many of these partnerships have existed from our very first self service product launch.
Examples include:

Company: ELO Touch Tyco

Products/Services: Resistive Touch, Acoustic Pulse Recognition (APR) Touch, Projected
Capacitive Touch, Infrared Touch, Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) Touch.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Avery Weigh-Tronix
Products/Services: Weigh scales.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Crane Payment Solutions
Products/Services: Cash handling devices.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: MEI Group
Products/Services: Cash handling devices.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Star Micronics
Products/Services: Receipt Printers, label printers, printer mechanisms, card printers.
Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Datalogic
Products/Services: Barcode scanners, RFID readers, handheld scanners.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 30 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Finance Products

I 2.6.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to
I source Products within this category.

Fujitsu’s extensive history in providing POS hardware and applications, as well as ATMs,
peripherals and other Financial Products devices has enabled a wealth of knowledge to
be built up within our Retail Products Group. This knowledge has been gathered through
experience of our many customers’ varied environments, from retail to vending to banking-
and through our strategic partnerships with our partners and suppliers, such as Epson,
Herberts, Zebra Technologies and Ingenico. Our broad range of POS and financial
products has been designed to be fully compliant with the latest generation industry
standard operating systems in order to support fast development, and is able to support
vendor-neutral peripherals; although we can provide a complete set of quality own-brand
peripherals, Fujitsu works with other ‘best of breed’ suppliers to deliver a best-fit solution
to our customer requirements.

Fujitsu also works closely with customers to develop bespoke solutions which meet
specific needs. For example, we have worked closely with Spanish savings banks to
develop industry-leading, multi-functional ATM/kiosk solutions which offer an extended
range of services (including bill payment; transaction updating; and document/ticket
printing) to meet the particular demands of the local banking market. We have also
developed an extensive range of in-branch equipment such as secure note recyclers (and
which verify that the note is genuine before it is accepted), coin counters/sorters,
document and passbook printers, Magnetic Ink Character Recognition (MICR) and bar
code and smart card readers, all of which we deploy in branches throughout Spain.

2.6.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
meet the requirements of POL.

Fujitsu’s broad selection of customers (for example RBSG, Tesco Personal Finance and
Waitrose) and suppliers means that we have a wide experience in delivering products
and services of this nature. We recognise that Post Office Limited occupies a unique
space in the banking and retail markets, not to mention the telecommunication and
insurance markets, and fully expect to determine unique requirements- these could be
filled by developing on existing hardware, software or applications, or by finding new
partners and suppliers which can work with us to deliver the best-fit solution at the best
value for money.

Should our “business as usual” relationships not enable us to meet POL’s specific
requirements for Finance Products we will mobilise staff from our Solution Architecture
professional community, working in conjunction with our Financial Services specialists
and Procurement Managers, to carry out a gap analysis and identify potential suppliers
using our knowledge of the wider IT marketplace. As one of the largest providers of IT
and network services in the UK we feel confident that we will be able to identify and fill
any gaps in this area.

Fujitsu prides itself on developing solutions in conjunction with its clients, an approach
that we would hope to adopt in our relationship with the Post Office. In Spain, for
example, Fujitsu has developed and implemented multi-language, multi-entity and multi-
vendor platforms, with software compatible with, but independent of, key hardware
vendors such as Wincor, NCR, Triton and Diebold and which can operate in fat client,
thin client; virtualised and smart-client environments. The company also offers a
maintenance/managed services solution relating to hardware, specifically with regard to
installations, maintenance and logistics.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 31 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[2.6.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may I
I fall within the category.

Fujitsu has an existing extensive range of hardware, software and applications which
have been developed to not only be able to support latest generation industry standard
operating systems, peripherals and multiple applications, but also to deliver award-
winning Green functionality such as low power consumption, high efficiency power
supplies and powered ports (reducing the need for multiple power sockets). Within the
Post Office Account a selection of Financial Products are already supported, chiefly the
Horizon OnlineTM POS application and its associated data centres, networks, branch-
based Base Units and peripherals- but also SAP and financial file reconciliation services.

The Post Office Account’s products and services have been developed through our close
long-standing relationship with Post Office Limited and our awareness of POL’s market
space and philosophy; going forward we would expect to further develop this relationship
and jointly define and develop products as they are required, whilst continuing to deliver
information and recommendations on industry developments or new technology which is
developed in-house or is recognised through our ongoing research into technology and
markets worldwide.

Our approach to partnership and providing coverage is illustrated by our relationship with
one bank. It sought (what it described as) “more human” branch technology, defined as
“customer-friendly” and “easier to use”. Fujitsu worked with the client to develop new
ATM/kiosk solutions, and produced machines with more than 100 innovations when
compared to more conventional models. Our work enabled the bank to deploy equipment
which allowed identity to be confirmed by customers using their (same bank) internet log-
on passwords; which offered a comprehensive view of customer account balances held
with the bank, not just the one account to which the ATM card was “linked”; and which
enabled trading in stocks and shares. Put simply, our approach helped the bank
implement its chosen distribution strategy, by broadening the customer's choice as to how
s/he interacted with the bank while lowering the unit cost of each transaction by reducing
the need for manual intervention.

I 2.6.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

Fujitsu has a long history of providing products and services which match or exceed our
customers’ requirements; every customer is individual so it is rare to have a truly
‘standard’ requirement for a product. Within the Post Office Account we have sourced a
variety of non-standard products to different timescales - the most relevant being the
Hypercom PIN pads which are soon to be replaced by Ingenico PIN pads (both products
contain both retail and banking security keys, which is almost unheard-of in the financial
products market, as well as POL-specific hardware features such as a raised bump on
the 5 key for additional DDA compliance) and POLSAP, which has been customised to
meet POL’s requirements.

Fujitsu is also leading the development and deployment of its own “apps store”. By
partnering a range of small, niche and/or non-standard product partners who utilise the
Fujitsu Cloud, it is able to support the early deployment of new and innovative banking
solutions and products. Recent launches have included a mobile telephone (voice and
data recording) service, as required by the Financial Services Authority since November
2011 and a mobile telephone-based payment authentication tool.

Should the need arise to source products, Fujitsu will turn to our own R&D capabilities,
our partners and suppliers, and to the wider marketplace in order to find best-fit products;

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 32 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

these would then be analysed in conjunction with POL to determine the most appropriate
solution.

I 2.6.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to
I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money. I

Our award-winning Client-facing and Service Delivery teams work closely with our
customers to establish the business requirements to be achieved from the product or
service, and use these together with our Sourcing and Supply teams to source products
which best match, and which also provide good value for money. These products can
then be developed further if necessary to provide the best possible fit to POL’s
requirements.

Fujitsu has dedicated Sourcing and Supply teams responsible for the procurement of
products, based on a professional purchasing practise to achieve a cost effective supply
base- over £225m of customer orders are delivered per annum by the Supply team alone.
Our Sourcing function is responsible for developing world class relationships with market
leading suppliers, enabling the delivery of excellent products and services to our
customers and ensuring that commercial frameworks support both Fujitsu and our
customers in delivering high quality, value for money products and services. Although we
have relationships and partnerships with many suppliers and our buying power as a
company can deliver discounts, we do not limit ourselves to these suppliers if others may
have a solution that fits our customer better.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 33 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 2.6.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including
I information on type and length of relationships.

Within just the Post Office Account, longstanding relationships have been developed, for example
a 20-year partnership with Welch Allyn, the original barcode reader supplier which subsequently
became Honeywell, and our 10-year interaction with Geller, who provided the Post Shop POS and
related financial reconciliation and subsequently the portable POS unit.

In our wider sourcing team we have worked with Ingenico to provide point-of-payment devices and
software, with Herberts to provide labelling and weighing solutions to retail and with Wincor Nixdorf
to supply self-service and POS solutions for a number of years. Our approach is collaborative, with
the aim of producing the best fit solution to customer requirements whilst providing a quality
product with value for money.

Many of these partnerships have existed from our very first self service product launch. Examples
include (Please also see our response to question 2.5.6):

Company: ELO Touch Tyco

Products/Services: Resistive Touch, Acoustic Pulse Recognition (APR) Touch, Projected
Capacitive Touch, Infrared Touch, Surface Acoustic Wave (SAW) Touch.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Avery Weigh-Tronix
Products/Services: Weigh scales.
Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Crane Payment Solutions
Products/Services: Cash handling devices.
Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: MEI Group
Products/Services: Cash handling devices.
Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Star Micronics
Products/Services: Receipt Printers, label printers, printer mechanisms, card printers.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

Company: Datalogic
Products/Services: Barcode scanners, RFID readers, handheld scanners.

Relationship: 10+ years including major collaborations at OEM, integrator and reseller level.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 34 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Security Systems

I 2.7.1 Provide information on how you wil utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to
I source Products within this category. I

Fujitsu has extensive experience in the implementation and management of security
systems and has been involved in developing and supplying secure architectures,
products and systems for over 30 years. The experience gained in Government Markets
has been used to enable Fujitsu to offer secure solutions in the commercial marketplace,
particularly in Financial Services. Fujitsu has achieved the highest possible levels of
security accreditation in respect of the delivery of IT Services through its long-standing
partnership with the UK Ministry of Defence.

Fujitsu has a dedicated Information Security Business Unit of specialist security
practitioners supported by several hundred consultants and engineers from other parts of
the business. These other consultants have specialist skills that are focused in different
areas whilst having specific experience of security issues and best practice in their
respective primary disciplines.

Fujitsu is also a global leader in the provision of networking and telecommunications
systems. Fujitsu's own UK core network incorporates over 400,000 network ports and
over 10,000 network devices, as well as 12000 voice circuits and over 13,000 ISDN
channels, with support for over 7.5 million broadband lines offering over 25,000
connection. Our capabilities cover optical networks, carrier ethernet, Next generation
Access, wireless and data networking in support of a range of managed networking
services including network security and building surveillance systems.

The above experience means that Fujitsu has considerable experience of designing,
sourcing and implementing the types of products detailed within POL’s “Security
Systems” scope (e.g. CCTV, security network servers, alarms). These are either as
standard alone systems or more normally as part of a wider infrastructure deployment
and ongoing managed service.

I 2.7.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
I meet the requirements of POL

Due to the nature, for example, of an end-to-end CCTV solution, every solution which we
propose is a tailored solution the client's specific physical security requirements. As
examples we can use Fulham FC, Royal Borough of Kensington, Dublin Airport etc. Each
of these solutions has required a bespoke offering to ensure that the client's
requirements are satisfied, yet where possible, has re-used existing infrastructure (e.g.
CCTV cameras) in order to deliver the right solution at reduced cost.

The technology required to deliver, for example, a full CCTV solution may include:

* access control solutions

« alarms and CCTV security local operator monitoring

« alarms and CCTV security Remote Incident Centre monitoring
« automated gates and barriers

* biometric solutions

e image recording and archiving

e image recognition, analytics and applications

¢ infrastructure and service management tools

«installation service

* maintenance service

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 35 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

e information security and provision of information security products;
«physical security and provision of physical security products;
* remote door opening and integrated camera solutions
« supply of VMS and security software
* support for CCTV and physical security equipment
« CCTV and Physical Security Monitoring Services technical architecture, system
design and integration
* service test and analysis tools
We have the established knowledge and relationships to address these likely

requirements; either by the use of in-house capability or through working with third
parties.

Fujitsu will therefore use its understanding of POL’s organisation and requirements, our
specialist subject matter experts and our best practice procurement approach (described
in our responses to Section 2.1 and 2.2) to identify and fill any gaps.

2.7.3 Provide information on how you will ensure a good coverage across the scope of all Products that may
fall within the category. I

Fujitsu will use its current extensive network of suppliers and contacts, extended as
needed, to provide good coverage across the scope of the products that may fall within
the “security systems” category.

Fujitsu and its security partners are continuously undertaking a Technology Watch across
our supplier base in both the IT and security industries, evaluating new products for both
public and private sector clients. We have regularly identified new products which have
proven to operate more effectively within the constraints of an end-to-end service
solution.

To manage this supplier base we negotiate best value pricing and leverage previous
deals and strength of relationship for the benefit of POL. We can run competitive
tendering as appropriate to demonstrate best value for money and can provide a
comprehensive view on current market pricing using our extensive network of suppliers.
We can facilitate links into suppliers and distributors and act as an effective point of
escalation for all supplier issues.

I 2.7.4 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products
I within agreed timescales.

Our experience and contacts developed through the provision of full managed services
will be deployed to ensure that we identify and source non-standard or niche products
should they be required. Our relationships with the security industry allow us to quickly
identify new and niche solutions and bench-test new technologies in order to meet
approval for use, managing the supplier where necessary to deliver technical expertise
and support the supply chain in a timely fashion.

Our wide experience is partially shown below to give confidence. We routinely provide:

- Edge devices including CCTV cameras, Access Control Points, Automated Gates
Barriers and specialist solutions including leading edge Biometric solutions (including
eye, hand and facial recognition systems), perimeter detection solutions.

- CCTV review suite infrastructure and a broad reach of developing Video Management
Systems, including the need for workstation equipment with touch control monitors,
wide viewing screens and projectors, evidential locker technology and associated
operating software.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 36 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

- Physical Security management systems, covering the latest innovations in hardware
and software systems (e.g. wireless tablets) that allow data from numerous edge and
infrastructure devices across multiple connected sites to be monitored, stored,
managed and analysed.

- Infrastructure Management Systems to provide facilities for proactive systems
monitoring and maintenance.

- Security Information and Event Management System (SIEM) and an Intrusion
Detection System (IDS), using the latest specialist technologies for the detection and
management of security incidents.

As well as specific technical and product knowledge Fujitsu can call upon its Information
Security team (with over 60 specialist security practitioners) to inform and guide the
identification and sourcing of non-standard or niche products.

l
I 2.7.5 Provide information on how you will compare suppliers within your networks and the entire market to
I provide POL with Products which are best fit to requirements, of a high quality and provide value for money. I

Fujitsu has dedicated Sourcing and Supply teams responsible for the procurement of
products, based on a professional purchasing practise to achieve a cost effective supply
base - over £225m of customer orders are delivered per annum by the Supply team
alone. Our Sourcing function is responsible for developing world class relationships with
market leading suppliers, enabling the delivery of excellent products and services to our
customers and ensuring that commercial frameworks support both Fujitsu and our
customers in delivering high quality, value for money products and services. Although we
have relationships and partnerships (as described in our response to 2.7.6) with many
suppliers, and our buying power as a company can deliver discounts, we do not limit
ourselves to these suppliers if others have a solution that fits our customer better.

We will therefore use our knowledge, experience and procurement best practice to run
tenders, as appropriate, to ensure the best fit for POL in terms of a high quality and value
for money selection of security systems.

We are confident that we can do this based upon the relevant experience we have.
This experience embraces:

e Security evaluation and risk assessment (ITSEC, ITSEM, UKSP04, UKSP16,
TCSEC (Orange Book), TNI (Red Book), ISO/IEC 27001, Common Criteria,
CRAMM, SPRINT, COBRA, etc.)

« Designing secure infrastructures to support customers’ security requirements, using
CTAS, CCTM, CAPS, ITSEC and CC approved evaluated technologies and other
security products intended for the commercial market place

e The provision of accreditation services in support of both the commercial and
Government sectors (IA Standards and CESG GPGs).

Fujitsu has designed and implemented numerous secure infrastructure systems such as
the Home Office, HMRC, BIS, DVLA and The Ministry of Defence as well as many clients
in the commercial sector.

I 2.7.6 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including
I information on type and length of relationships.

By way of example, these include:
Video Management Systems:

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 37 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Verint Nextiva, Genetec Omnicast & Security Centre, Milestone Xprotect Corporate,
March Networks, DVTel Latitude, Digifourt, Cisco, NICE, American Dynamics

Cameras:

Axis, Panasonic, Bosch, Ernitech, Sony, Aercont, Mobotix, Genie, Samsung, Pelco,
Verint, DVtel

Displays:

Barco, Panasonic, Samsung, NEC, ...

Hardware:

Dell, HP, IBM, NetApps, EMC, Hitachi, Panasonic, ...

Our relationships with each of these suppliers is extensive and reaches from frequent
supplier status to global Gold Partner. Many of the relationships have been in place for
more than ten years.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 38 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

2.6 Specialist Equipment

2.8.1 Provide information on how you will utilise any relationships or networks you currently have in place to I
source Products within this category. I

Fujitsu has over 20 years of experience manufacturing and deploying biometric and
related equipment. We work with a wide range of the leading biometric hardware,
software and services suppliers worldwide to source products for deployment to our many
customers. For a selection of current suppliers, please see our answer to 2.8.4.

Examples of these include:

« Biometric Data Capture Equipment and Facial Recognition solutions at the United
Kingdom Border Agency

* Biometric software at Royal Canadian Mounted Police

« Biometric Data Capture Equipment and Facial Recognition solutions the Japanese
Ministry of the Interior (ePassports)

* Biometric Data Capture software for the Saudi Ministry of Foreign Affairs (project in
progress)

* Biometric Data Capture Equipment for the Citizenship and Immigration Canada and
Canadian Border Security Agency (project in progress)

Because of our long term and wide ranging engagement with the biometric industry we
are able to supply equipment in all categories from multiple suppliers. Our ability to
compete multiple vendors allows us to offer our clients the best pricing for a given set of
equipment requirements. We are also able to ensure that prices provided for any given
deployment are comparable to similar deployments we have conducted.

Our familiarity with deploying these products, worldwide, for many years allows us to
provide appropriate advice and guidance on product selection, as well as support and
maintenance for products either directly or through agreements with the OEMs. These
arrangements are exemplified in at the UK Borders Agency, where Fujitsu guided the
Agency in the selection of the Cross Match Technologies Verifier 300 LC 2.0 and the 3M
AT9000 Passport Reader, which are now supported and maintained by Fujitsu staff.

I 2.8.2 Provide information on how you will identify and fill gaps within your networks that will allow you to
I meet the requirements of POL

Fujitsu maintains active engagement with the biometrics industry which enables us to
identify new products and services coming to market from both existing and future
suppliers. We hold regular supplier briefings, innovation days and 1:1 meetings with
SMEs through to large organisations in order to understand industry trends and direct
product roadmaps.

Where new products meet an existing or anticipated need of our clients we will
proactively seek to introduce these once they have been properly evaluated. Evaluation
will encompass not only the functionality of the new product, but also the deployment,
support, maintenance and commercial framework that will allow Fujitsu to be confident in
the robustness of our complete offering. If appropriate the products will be formally
introduced through Fujitsu’s Offerings Lifecycle at either a Regional (UK and Ireland) or
Global basis, ensuring wider visibility for our customer base.

Examples of this approach include the United Kingdom Borders Agency where we
identified VisionBox as a leading supplier of ePassport gates which were piloted at
Manchester Airport prior to national rollout, or CentreLink Australia where we identified a

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 39 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

university spin-out company as an innovative partner to partner with for a large voice
biometrics deployment.

I 2.8.3 Provide information on how you will identify suppliers and source non-standard or niche Products

I within agreed timescales.

Fujitsu is able to work with our wide supplier base to source non-standard or niche
products in short timescales. Many of our suppliers are OEMs with the ability to customise
their products for specific requirements and/or produce short production runs of specialist
components. Where necessary, Fujitsu will use our dedicated product integration unit
(Fujitsu Retail Products Group) to custom manufacture, alter or integrate products to meet
client needs.

In some instances, where it will not adversely affect other customer commitments, Fujitsu
is able to reprioritise deliveries from suppliers to meet urgent operational demands.

In our recent contract for Citizenship and Immigration Canada, Fujitsu worked with
CrossMatch Technologies to specify a modified version of their Livescan Guardian
product to meet the customer's technical specification and budget; similarly for the United
Kingdom Border Agency we have worked with 3M to configure their passport reader
products to meet space and security constraints. In a number of projects we have used
the Fujitsu Retail Products Group to provide custom housings for products in order to
meet portability, mounting or anti-tampering requirements.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 40 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 2.8.4 Please provide details on the networks you have in place for Products within this category, including
I information on type and length of relationships.

Below are details of a number of the specialist companies we have relationships with:

Company: Aware

About: Aware provides a broad portfolio of COTS biometrics software products. Aware’s products.
are highly modular software components and are used globally to incorporate advanced biometric
functionality into law enforcement, credentialing, access control, and border management
solutions.

Products/Services: Biometric enrolment, identification, verification and transaction management
software

Relationship: 5+ years including major collaborations at UK Border Agency, Canada and Saudi
Arabia

Company: Cross Match Technologies

About: Cross Match Technologies, Inc. is a leading provider of high-quality interoperable biometric
identity management systems, applications and services. Our global presence combines innovative
products and services with a continuing dedication to customer support and social responsibility.

Products/Services: Fingerprint and palm scanners, mobile biometric units, iris capture devices,
multimodal jump kits, document readers, enterprise and application software and related services

Relationship: 5+ years including major projects with UK and Canadian Governments

Company: Daon

About: Daon is a leading provider of biometric systems, used to enrol more than 1 million people
per day worldwide. They have successfully delivered national solutions consisting of various
biometric capture devices and biometric facial recognition software to prestigious worldwide clients
including Australia POST and KiwiBank.

Products/Services: \dentity assurance and identification and verification software and services
Relationship: 6+ years including deployments in the UK and Australia

Company: Safran Morpho

About: Safran Morpho is a leading, global provider of end biometric to end solutions, platforms and
products, further expanding its portfolio of biometric products when it purchased L-1 Identity
Solutions in July 2011.

Products/Services: Biometric solutions

Relationship: Fujitsu's relationship with Morpho now extends nearly 10 years, including partnerships
with Morpho acquired companies for projects in the UK and Ireland.

Company: NEC

About: Provider of IT Services, Platform, Carrier Network,Social Infrastructure, Personal Solutions
Products/Services: Biometric solutions

Relationship: 5+ years

Company: 3M

About: 3M Security Systems Division is a trusted partner and industry leader in delivering end-to-
end, innovative security solutions to businesses and governments worldwide. 3M helps solve an
array of security challenges, including efficient passenger check-in, secure ID and passport
document issuance and border management

Products/Services: Passport and document readers, biometric enrolment equipment, face and
fingerprint matching software

Relationship: 15+ years including a number of technology refreshes of equipment on the UK border

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 41 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

3. PRODUCT - MANUFACTURER'S GUARANTEE AND WARRANTY

[
I 3.1 Please explain how you will provide a complete after sales service for manufacturer's guarantee and
I warranty.

The key to a successful service is that there is agreement upfront about what faults the
manufacturer guarantee or warranty will cover and what happens if there is disagreement
about the cause of the fault. Our standard end-to-end process on items with
manufacturer warranty is:

1. The engineer visiting site checks that the hardware to be replaced is actually faulty to
avoid unnecessary replacements and No Fault Found charges from the manufacturer

2. The engineer makes a record of the observed fault and any details required to make
a warranty claim. This record is attached to the faulty hardware

3. The faulty hardware is returned to our warranty filter process where we can make a
second check that the hardware is faulty and the fault will be covered by the
manufacturer warranty. At this stage we take one of the following actions:

a. Return the item to Good Stock if no fault is found

b. ‘Quick Fix' the item on the bench if allowed and more cost-effective than using the
manufacturer warranty

c. Send the item to the most cost-effective non-warranty repairer if a warranty claim
is unlikely to be successful

d. Send the item to the manufacturer warranty agent if the warranty claim is likely to
be successful with all the appropriate paperwork.

For items that are sent to the manufacturer’s warranty agent there will almost always be
some warranty claim rejections unless an all-inclusive service is purchased. Some faults
are not consistently repeatable, customer damage and misuse is not always clearly
definable and sometimes items are damaged in transit, the management of these
rejections is key to all parties feeling that they have received fair treatment.

The key items to agree are that there will be gray areas on warranty claims, that a
disagreement about cause does not stop the part being repaired and available for use
and that Post Office Limited continues to be involved and use their influence as the
manufacturer's end-customer to ensure that warranty terms are honoured.

Fujitsu has extensive experience in this area with warranty specialists in multiple areas
who deal with all the main desktop, POS and more specialist manufacturers.

Fujitsu has one of the largest field-based maintenance team capabilities within the UK IT
services market with approximately 950 engineers operating across the UK. This team
completes more than 20,000 hardware fixes per month for over 220 different customers
in retail, hospitality, local and central government, telecoms, travel, financial services,
manufacturing, utilities industries and the Post Office.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 42 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 3.2 Please explain how you will provide documents and reports to POL regarding third party warranties

Fujitsu shall, in line with the terms of the specific purchase, provide Post Office Limited
with the appropriate documentation that details the warranty provided by the
manufacturer.

Fujitsu shall maintain an overall record of all purchases and their associated warranty
entitlements. This database of information shall be used to provide management
information to Post Office Limited regarding warranty entitlements and could be used to:

« Compare warranty agreement structures between different purchases to ensure
that Post Office Limited is getting a consistent level of agreements to meet its
business demands

e Bench mark the price of warranty agreements against previous purchases

« Provide baseline requirements for future purchases to reduce the effort involved in
‘standing up’ a new agreement

* Identify when warranty entitlements are ending and allow Post Office Limited to plan
discussions around warranty extensions, estate refreshes or alternative support
routes, thus enabling a proactive view for technology and estate road maps.

I 3.3 Please explain how you will support POL in the identification of changes to third party warranties.

Fujitsu shall support Post Office Limited in the identification of changes to third party
warranties in the following ways;

1. Through our extensive range of channel partners we have the relationships in place to
ensure that we are informed when a manufacturer is proposing to amend/change the
terms of standard warranty agreements

2. Where a purchase specific warranty agreement is put in place Fujitsu shall work with
Post Office Limited to put in place the required commercial and operational
relationships required to manage changes to the agreement that are driven by either:

a. Achange in Post Office Limited’s business drivers or requirements, or
b. By the manufacturer

3. Through our extensive experience as a manufacturer provide recommendations to
Post Office Limited on industry best practice for the structure and provision of
warranty agreements

Fujitsu shall provide this support and guidance through a combination of Service
Management reviews and notifications, as well as targeted consultancy as agreed with
Post Office Limited.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 43 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

PRODUCTS SERVICES - DELIVERY AND INSTALLATIONS

: -
I 4.1 Please explain how you will develop and provide an effective delivery and installation framework
I including the capability to deliver off site installation services.

Fujitsu can establish a Project Management and Co-ordination Team (PMO) who will be
responsible for setting up the delivery and installation infrastructure, developing and documenting
operational and technical processes and procedures, resourcing and training.

Once the set-up phase is complete the Team will manage the deployment of products for both one-
off requests (IMAC) and Projects providing a single operational interface to POL. The team will be
scalable and can be flexed in order to meet demand.

Fujitsu’s Logistics Centre in Warrington will provide Procurement, Warehousing, Configuration and
Transport Services. The warehouse is 141,000ft square, highly secure and List X approved with a
capacity to hold 12,000 pallets.

The Configuration Centre is integrated into the Warehouse enabling the fast and efficient supply of
product and provides software installation, configuration and test services. Pre-configuring and
testing hardware in the Configuration Centre reduces the amount of work that needs to be done on
site and filters out DOA items and Early Life Failures minimising the impact on Installations.

Fujitsu has an established portfolio of transport providers who offer the full range of services
required in terms of product size and weight, delivery times and geographical coverage. Services
include Same Day Couriers, Overnight Couriers, dedicated point-to-point collections and deliveries;
specialist movers for large items i.e. ATMs and Certified Waste Carriers. Fujitsu will work with
POL to select the most appropriate transport services for both one-off installations and projects.

A Stock and Warehouse Management Systems will be set up to manage POL products. This will
include the creation of part numbers and logical stock locations so that POL’s stock can be
identified, accessed and stock levels managed and reported.

Data communications links, communications equipment and Build Servers may be installed in the
Configuration Centre to support the software installation and test processes. Fujitsu will work with
POL to facilitate this. It may be necessary to modify bench layouts and power and data circuits
within the Configuration Centre depending on security, hardware and communications
requirements.

The Project Management and Co-ordination Team will liaise with POL to plan the delivery and
installation work and develop operational procedures which take into account POL’s requirements,
dependencies and constraints. A Fujitsu Project Engineer will be assigned to work with POL to
develop the procedures for software installation, configuration and testing, installation and final
testing. All procedures will be documented, signed-off by Fujitsu and POL and be managed under
version control.

The configuration and installation resource requirements will be forecasted to ensure that the
correct number of appropriately skilled Engineers are available throughout the Project in all
geographical locations.

Fujitsu has its own engineering force of in excess of 950 field engineers geographically distributed
across the UK. Fujitsu engineers are trained in Health and Safety and, where required, hold current
Construction Skills Certification Scheme (CSCS) cards.

Fujitsu’s Configuration and Installation Engineers will be trained and verified before being allocated
work using the Configuration and Installation Procedures respectively.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 44 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

4.2 Please explain how you will provide Product delivery services to our entire UK network, explaining any
limitations you might have in doing so, such as delivery timescales, guarantees, installation/configuration, etc I

As one of the largest IT logistics facilities across the UK, Fujitsu's Technical Integration Centre
(TIC), located in Warrington, provides a range of collection and delivery options. All service
options are tailored to specific customer requirements. These services are managed through a
network of approved specialist couriers and can be deployed as part of an overall technology
refresh, minimising user disruption and re-visits. We cover the entirety of the UK and already reach
all parts of the current POL network through our current Horizon relationship.

Fujitsu will arrange and administer all transport services using our approved third party carrier
partners. Deliveries to the UK mainland can be made on a next day basis. Our standard delivery
and collection times are during business hours Monday to Friday. Where required by POL, Fujitsu
can also manage deliveries and/or collections outside normal working hours. This may include
weekends and/or Bank Holidays. Fujitsu can deliver to POL locations based in the highlands and
the isles, but next day can not be guaranteed due to ferry crossing times particularly during out of
season.

Managed Deliveries are typically delivered as part of a Deployment Project. The Project Manager
will, on behalf of the customer, agree a specific schedule with the Transport Services management
team. Additional services can also be provided for example, delivery to a desk and unboxing of
equipment, the Carrier can also take away all packaging for recycling.

Fujitsu can manage moves (e.g. from desk to desk) and/or relocation (e.g. from site to site) of
existing IT equipment. Specialist Carriers can provide equipment to move large items for example
racks and storage equipment. Fujitsu would recommend site surveys are carried out and can
provide these via the Carrier.

Fujitsu can collect “waste” equipment with approved Carriers; this may be part of the provision of
Recycle Services for redundant equipment.

Fujitsu can provide a fully secure delivery and collection service using dedicated and/or unmarked
vehicles including using personnel with security clearance, Secure delivery consists of one or two
dedicated personnel with a dedicated vehicle to ensure security in maximised.

Fujitsu already has extensive experience in delivering installation and implementation services
across the Post Office Limited network.

Notably over the last few year Fujitsu has successfully deployed both a full estate refresh of the
networks counter printer estates, replacing the legacy Ithaca printers with new devices from Epson,
as well as the network wide deployment of the branch router solution which was the key
communications component for the HNG-x solution.

Fujitsu is also in the process of preparing to deploy 30,000 new PIN pads to the Post Office Limited
branch network which will draw upon this extensive experience and allow new lessons to be learnt
for future deployments.

Through these recent deployments Fujitsu has current and relevant experience in the scheduling of
installations across the Post Office Limited network and knowledge of the geographic and logistical
complexities involved with deploying products to such a diverse network.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 45 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

4.3 Please explain how you will track Products throughout the supply pipeline and through to delivery at their I
intended destination, including asset tagging and tracking Products whilst in transit. I

Fujitsu’s Supply and Lifecycle Services (SLS) is responsible for providing end-to-end lifecycle
services from purchasing, configuration, logistics and recycling through to spares and repair
management. SLS manages a wide portfolio of product vendors, as described throughout this
response. Our secure logistics and delivery function will ensure that orders are tracked through the
procurement and delivery process and integrate with any additional product related services that
POL contracts for (e.g. on or off site configuration, delivery, on site installation and integration — the
full range of services that might be agreed through the Call Off Contract process). The capability is
supported by Fujitsu's Technical Integration Centre (TIC) - a 24*7 operational warehouse and
warehouse management system (WMS) and that has the capacity to process over 100,000 items
per month inbound and outbound.

With regard to asset tagging, if a third party supplier asset tags the equipment during the
manufacturing process, the vendor feed will be provided to Fujitsu and POL. This vendor feed will
include the serial and asset details and will be provided when the products ship into Fujitsu's
Technical Integration Centre or directly to a POL site if required.

If equipment is not asset tagged by the manufacturer, then this can be done by Fujitsu. As defined
in any POL scripted requirements, the Configuration Engineer will assetise all equipment as
necessary. This normally involves the application of a unique asset label (supplied by either the
customer or Fujitsu). The Configuration Engineer will then scan the asset label and the serial
number barcodes which will be recorded in the Configuration Database. The asset number can
also be entered into the BIOS if required. Fujitsu will, where required, capture MAC addresses,
licence codes etc. Regular reports can be set up to provide POL with the information required.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited - Page 46 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 4.4 Please explain how you will document the installation details and make the information available to POL.

As part of Fujitsu’s standard installation processes Fujitsu’s PMO, will collect information
pertinent to the installation of equipment on POL sites. This information will be collected
throughout the scheduling, configuration and installation process. Fujitsu will provide an
Installation Report for each installation activity detailing the following information:
e Site Address;
e Site Number;
« Site Contact Details (name and telephone number);
« The items installed together with the following information for each item:
o Make;
Model;
Serial Number;
Asset Number
Location i.e. teller position
Port number and
o Status
The Installation Report will also be used to sign-off the installation and will hold the
signature, name and date of the engineer and POL’s on-site representative.

Photographs of the installed equipment can be taken and attached to the Installation
Report for future reference.

00000

Fujitsu will work closely with POL to determine the information that POL need to keep on
record. Any information required over and above that detailed will be captured on the
Installation Report for POL’s reference.

The Installation Report can be made available to POL in a number of ways to ensure that
it is available in a timely and convenient manner including:

« Email and

* Uploading to a POL Fileserver or Web Portal

e Uploading to a Fujitsu Web Portal
A Daily Report will also be issued. This will include the status of all installations that are
either in progress or have been completed that day. The Daily Report will include the
following information:

« Site Name;

« Site Number;

e Installation Completion Date;

* Description of the items being installed;

e RAG Status (Red, Amber, Green) and

« Details of any issues and remedial action being taken.
Fujitsu will keep the Installation Reports and Daily Reports on file for future reference.

[
I 4.5 Please explain how you will develop and undertake ‘Quality Assurance’ testing of Products prior to
I installation and release to Production environments

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 47 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

In summary, under the existing Post Office contract, we already have a number of dedicated test
teams which thoroughly test and quality assure any development, release or product. When any
product goes through test, there are a number of sign-off criteria and acceptance gates at each
stage; Post Office is fully engaged with the gating process at each stage to ensure that they are
part of the team, and kept as up to date and engaged with the various products as possible. A
series of independent tests are carried out on new products, the scope of which varies depending
on the size and scale of what is being introduced.

Under the existing Post Office contract there is an agreed Test Strategy which has matured over
many years and can be refined as needed to address any specific requirements arising from the IT
Products Framework. A Test Plan is defined for each project and draws on the principles from the
Test Strategy:

e Joint Working

* Collaboration

e Risk Based Testing

e Consistent Test Management and Automation Tooling

« Adherence to gateway criteria such as test stage entry criteria
« Progressive, incremental development, testing and acceptance

To deliver each Test Plan, there is an abundance of experience in the Joint Test Team effectively
combining business knowledge and testing skills. The combined skills and experience of POL and
Fujitsu staff have provided a well balanced team across the various roles within testing; POL staff
providing business input and a conduit to the various POL and external project stakeholders, and
Fujitsu staff providing technical expertise and coordination across the various teams within the
wider Fujitsu organisation.

Products (Major Releases, Emergency Fixes and Maintenance Releases) will go through a cycle of
testing — by the Development, Integration and Reference Data teams; followed by System Volume
and Integration (SV&I) end to end testing, and finally Live System Test (LST) to emulate the live
environment.

The SV&I testing may be omitted if the product being introduced is a repeatable process, i.e. it is
not introducing new end points. Any defect found in the new product will have a problem record
recorded and a fix will go through the cycle again until it achieves sign off.

There may be up to seven cycles of SV&I testing, looking at different parts of the solution until the
complete solution is signed off. The product then goes into LST testing to ensure that it can
coexist with existing products on the live estate. Once signed off by LST a pre-deployment
planning review is held by Release Management with the deployment teams and the service owner
which acts as a further quality control.

The Release Process acts as a gateway to allow a new product release to be deployed onto the live
estate. The process ensures that a number of formal checks and validations are completed before
the decision to deploy is made in order to protect the live environment. The deployment of new
releases is closely coordinated with the customer, and the acceptance criteria for the releases are
defined on a joint basis. A master MSC is raised to cover the release in its entirety and sub-
changes raised for the testing and deployment phases. Authorisation from the Change Advisory
Board for release into the live estate is only given after testing has been successfully concluded.

For all Major Releases the Service Introduction process acts as a gateway to ensure that all service
requirements are met by a series of Service Readiness Reviews with all stakeholders. This is
followed by a Release Readiness Review and Acceptance into Service meeting where the Release
is signed off as ready for live service by the Service Owner.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 48 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 4.6 Please explain how you will keep POL informed and routinely updated in respect to installation and
I testing activities.

Requests for one-off installations will be managed using an Order Management System.
The Requests will be allocated to a Co-ordinator who will be responsible for managing the
Request from receipt through to completion and will provide a single point of contact to
the Requestor. The Co-ordinator will provide the Requestor with their contact details
upon receipt of the Request.

The Co-ordinator will liaise with the Requestor to agree delivery and installation dates
which will be logged in the Order Management System and confirmed via email.

If the Requestor needs to amend the delivery and installation dates they can contact the
Co-ordinator directly. New dates will be agreed and the Order Management System
updated. The revised dates will be confirmed to the Requestor via email.

If the original dates cannot be met by Fujitsu, the Co-ordinator will contact the Requestor
as soon as this is known and agree alternative dates. Again, the Order Management
System will be updated and the revised dates confirmed by email.

Fujitsu will issue a consolidated daily report detailing the scheduled dates for all IMAC
Requests in progress.

Roll-outs will be managed using a Schedule. This will include as a minimum:

« Site Name

« Site Number

« Description of the items being installed

¢ Configuration and Test date

e Delivery date

* Installation and Test date
The Schedule will be maintained under version control and will be issued at pre-agreed
intervals and/or when any changes have been made. The Schedule will be colour coded
so that changes can be easily identified and will contain a change log detailing the
following information:

* Description of the change

« Type of change i.e. addition, deletion, amendment

« The reason for the change

e Who requested the change

« The date the change was made

I 4.7 Please explain how you will develop and maintain documented procedures for inspection and testing
I activities in order to verify that the specified requirements for the Product/solution are met.

Fujitsu will work with POL and their partners to formulate test routines that test and verify
the functionality of each individual item of hardware, the operating systems and
applications, the connectivity between items of hardware and the system as a whole.

The test routines will be documented in the Configuration and Installation Procedures and
will be subject to sign-off by the relevant stakeholders within POL and Fujitsu. The
Procedures will then be maintained under version control. Distribution of the original
Procedures and all subsequent updates will be managed to ensure that all personnel are
working to the current agreed standard.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 49 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

The Configuration and Installation Procedures will contain Quality Assurance Checklists
which will be used to record the site and product details i.e. make, model, serial number,
asset number etc and the test results. The Quality Assurance Checklists will also be
used to sign off the configuration and installation work and will be kept on file for future
reference.

I 4.8 Please explain how you will provide system integration services roles, for example build and
I implementation activities.

Fujitsu has proven experience of delivering both simple and complex system integration
activities, including build and implementation tasks, across the UK. Below we have
detailed, as requested, some of the key roles and how they are structured within our
organisation. These services would be provided as a co-ordinated approach normally
lead by a project or Programme Manager.

Our Mobile engineering capability is comprised of Break Fix, Project and High End
Systems engineers working across the UK&l geography on customer sites across many
industry sectors:

« Hardware break fix of Point of sale terminals, servers, laptops, desktops and
peripherals
e Software operating systems and builds that cannot be done remotely

* Project and High End Systems (HES) Engineers provide, Installs, Moves, Additions
and Changes (IMAC) and services for Enterprise, High Impact and Data Network
systems

« Engineering resources for project and roll out deployments.
Deskside Service provides on-site resource at customers own locations:

« Hardware break fix of laptops, desktops and printers

« Deliver IMAC / MADC (Install, Move, Add, Change / Moves, Additions, De-Installs
and Change)

e Provide software and operating system support and builds

« End User Clinics
Rollout and Installation Services manage the activities relating to roll-out and installation
services:

« Deployment Capability - Retail

« Deployment Capability - Desktop

« Transition Management

e Implementation Support
It consists of specialist Roll-Out and Deployment staff, Project Management and Services
staff and Solution Architects

Frequently the above services are tailored to address the specific needs of our clients,
including POL. However a number of the build and implementation activities have been
packaged to maximise re-use of best practise and reduce implementation time and risk. A
specific example is a pre-defined and standardised service to rollout and install new
ATMs into a retail customer network.

I 4.9 Please explain how you will organise delivery and installation services to align with the defined
I processes, to avoid an aborted visit, including liaison with the appropriate contact, scheduling and
I conforming to access identity requirements.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 50 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Fujitsu will take a flexible and collaborative approach to planning and scheduling
deliveries and installations and will engage with the relevant contacts within POL and
their partners to establish mutually beneficial working relationships.

Where Fujitsu is delivering and installing hardware as part of a larger project, it is
essential that Fujitsu understands and appreciates the overall plan, constraints and
dependencies in order to integrate our activities with those of others as efficiently as
possible. Fujitsu will achieve this by working closely with POL and their partners to plan
and schedule the work. In order to avoid failed deliveries and/or aborted visits, Fujitsu will
work with the Project/Site Contact to monitor progress and check that the site is ready for
the delivery and installation.

Fujitsu will consult with POL to identify any constraints which affect deliveries. These
may include:

e POL’s procedures for accepting deliveries;

e The availability of Site Contacts;

e Vehicle dimensions, weight and manoeuvrability in relation to site;

¢ Parking/loading restrictions;

e Night-time and weekend delivery restrictions;

e Physical site access i.e. provision of additional resource and manual handling
equipment to move large items;

« The availability of storage space on site and
e Security

Any other constraints identified as part of the planning process will also be taken into
account when scheduling and organising deliveries.

Fujitsu is familiar with working on secure sites and will adhere to POL’s processes and
procedures. Fujitsu will ensure that:

« Personnel have the relevant security clearance and are able to demonstrate this
when on site

« Personnel wear the relevant Security Passes at all times when on site

« Names and vehicle registration details are provided as and when required

« Take into account notice periods for gaining entry into secure sites when planning
and scheduling work
I 4.10 Please explain how you will ensure that the service provided to POL minimises disruption to staff and

I customers during delivery and installation.

Fujitsu will work closely with POL to ensure that minimum disruption is caused by
deliveries and installation activities and will schedule work to avoid peak trading periods
and Change Freezes.

As much pre-configuration work as possible will be done at our Configuration Centre in
Warrington. This minimises the amount of work onsite and greatly reduces the risk of
failures during the installation process.

Wherever possible, our Engineers will take the items to be installed with them. This will
remove the need for a separate delivery and storing the items on site.

Where items or consignments are delivered directly to the site, Fujitsu will agree the
dates and times in order to ensure that, where required, the relevant POL personnel are
available on site and that there is suitable storage space available.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 51 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

The delivery of very large items requiring vehicles equipped with tail-lifts, delivery crews
and specialist moving equipment will be will be planned in detail with POL.

We can also provide and distribute Notices for display in branches which advise
customers when work will be taking place in order to set expectations with POL’s
customers and allow them to avoid those times.

The procedures for the installation will be documented and agreed with POL. The
installation process will be designed to minimise the impact to the site, staff and
customers.

We currently work around many of POL’s peak periods to deliver the best service at an
acceptable price. For example, the PIN pad rollout includes criteria that DVLA branches
will not be deployed on the first and last 3 working days of the month (these branches
give out road tax license discs so are very busy at this time), and we are creating and
distributing display notices for branches to advise customers when their PIN pads will be
installed.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 52 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

5. PRODUCTS SERVICES - CONFIGURATION

[
I 5.1 Please explain how you will develop and provide an effective ‘Configuration Management’ framework
I and the capability to deliver off site build services at your locations, prior to delivery to Post Office locations.

As part of Fujitsu's integrated service offering, our Configuration Services function
manages the pre-delivery configuration requirements for our clients’ IT and Networking
infrastructures.

Our services cover all aspects associated with configuration activities from technical build
consultancy, through to physical re-packaging requirements. Our expertise extends past
traditional IT equipment to include non-standard products such as kiosks, POS and
vending machines.

Fujitsu’s Configuration Service can begin with the testing of a customer specific system
build. This build can then be packaged, ready for volume imaging as required. Systems
are then passed into Fujitsu’s Configuration Centres by the logistics teams where they
are configured and then either dispatched or returned to bonded stock. The service
model is proven, yet flexible enough to take into account POL’s’ specific requirements.

Fujitsu is able to deliver a service tailored to each project or requirement and can
configure equipment according to role, department or even individual needs. The
Configuration Centre is a semi-production environment which has been designed to
deliver scalable configuration services, enabling customers to benefit from our economies
of scale. However Fujitsu has no minimum or maximum order thresholds and our
processes ensure that the latest approved build version is always deployed. The
Configuration Service is housed within Fujitsu’s Technical Integration Centre (TIC) in
Warrington. This purpose-built 10,000 sq.ft facility can accommodate multiple projects at
any one time.

As appropriate the service can consist of:
« Technical consultancy service to work with POL to understand your individual
configuration requirements
« Packaging of the production build image and recording of assetisation requirements

e Creation of a build script to capture and control the customer’s specific
requirements

¢ Implementation of build script and training of Configuration Engineers
« High-volume configuration and assetisation of PCs, laptops, servers and retail POS
e Specific re-packaging of equipment ready for shipment

I 5.2 Please explain how you will document the configuration details of Products and make this information
I available to POL.

As part of the configuration service, described in our response to question 5.1, Fujitsu will
ensure that the full service is documented at each relevant stage and that a final
configuration report is produced. This will detail the outputs from service components
such as: hardware build and test; software image load and test; specific applications tests
(including data volume testing); virus checks; customisation to individual user level (e.g.
IP address, user’s name, workgroup); end-of-configuration diagnostics test and QA
check.

Part of the documentation set can be a full configuration report which can be tailored to
meet POL’s specific requirements and can change if the requirements of different
projects (and associated products) also change.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 53 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 5.3 Please explain how you will provide quality plans that detail the linkage/flow through to quality assurance I
I reviews. I

Fundamental principles of quality management in Fujitsu are that customer satisfaction is
paramount and that our business processes must be continually improved in order to
achieve the high standards of performance that our customers expect. The Fujitsu quality
management system is in fact an integrated Business Management System (BMS) that
fulfils the requirements of all of the external standards upon which we base our
management and control approach. Currently, this includes compliance with ISO
9001:2008, ISO/IEC27001, ISO/IEC20000, ISO/IEC14001, OHSAS 18001 and CMMI-
Dev.

At the corporate level plans are documented and maintained by which the establishment
and achievement of annual quality objectives are managed. These are closely related to
maintenance of the Quality Management System and the continual implementation of
improvements in Fujitsu’s processes or their degree and effectiveness of deployment.

At the project level, the project management standards require the project manager to
identify a specific quality plan within the context of the project plan. This is usually drawn
up during project initiation; its purpose being to identify the standards and measures by
which the quality of the delivered solution or service is to be determined. These are then
used at stages during the project to verify that deliverables will meet the agreed
acceptance criteria and form part of any quality assurance reviews.

For ongoing service contracts, Service Delivery Managers also drive a service
improvement plan as a way of capturing, and reviewing progress of, all specific
commitments associated with that contract.

Once a contract is agreed, further processes define how resources are deployed to
implement the project and how progress is reviewed regularly to fulfil the customer's
expectations. Such management reviews are held within the project team and then by the
responsible business unit, being further rolled-up into reports that are ultimately reviewed
at board level.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 54 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 5.4 Please explain how you will configure Products, e.g. software, to support POL in driving sales to

I customers

Fujitsu already has experience of working with POL to configure products to support POL in driving
sales.

The redesigned Horizon application (POS) was deployed in 2010. This application built on previous
capabilities to drive increased revenue. This is exemplified by examples such as if a postmaster
wanted to check the price of various types of postage applicable to a certain parcel weight on the
original Horizon app, he or she had to carry out a price check query four or five times against each
postal service applicable. With Horizon Online (new version) all the price points applicable are
instantly displayed after one query. This enables the postmaster to provide a faster, more
comprehensive quote to the customer - driving increased sales of more premium postal services -
and the counter availability to the public is increased as that transaction takes less time.

We will continue to work with POL to identify and pursue further opportunities to ensure that any
designs arising from activities under the auspices of the IT Products Framework Agreement are
cognisant of the need to drive incremental sales.

These may include aspects of design and configuration that include:

« Ergonomics and usability - is the integrated product set designed in such a way that it is
“easy” and, where possible, intuitive to use to maximise the postmaster’s “value add”
interaction with the customer. Fujitsu in the UK has a Design Studio that is focussed on
ensuring that user interfaces, in all their possible forms, are designed in such as way as to
increase effectiveness and productivity of staff.

« Designing for effectiveness — for the postmaster and their staff to take best advantage of the
interaction with the customer the products deployed must present the necessary information
in such a way that:

They can locate the exact product, price, documents and information required quickly

°
o They can be confident that the information is the latest version
co There is clear and logical navigation

o They receive the information in an appropriate format

co The transaction can be processed in a timely fashion

e Reliability and “uptime” — sales cannot be made when the supporting service isn’t available
or is performing poorly. A focus on ensuring that designs, and supporting services, are
optimised for reliability and performance will make best use of the sales opportunity. This is
a continuation of the approach that Fujitsu has taken with the systems and services we have
provided to POL over many years.

e Self-service and kiosk systems — in our response to the questions in sections 2.5 and 2.6 we
have already described some of our experience and capability in developing and integrating
effective self service and finance products. The optimum use of these technologies can
further aide sales. These forms of client interaction can be adapted to enable assisted,
service rather than full self service, and can also be designed to facilitate cross-selling of
incremental services.

« Hand held devices — These provide the ability for staff to interact with clients away from the
counter environment and give opportunities for “queue busting” and an enhanced customer
interaction.

Fujitsu’s understanding of POL’s business, coupled with, for example, our specific expertise in the
retail sector (lead by our Retail Products Group), provides us with the capability to work with POL.
to enhance sales through the deployment of new integrated product sets.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 55 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[5.5 Please describe your level of competence, capability and application of ISO quality practices and
I methodologies to achieve expected quality levels, for the supply of IT Products. Include specific details of the I
I ‘Quality Management System’ you currently operate.

The Post Office Account and its Horizon contract are fully 15027001 compliant.

Fujitsu’s QMS is an integrated Business Management System (BMS) fulfilling the
requirements of all external standards upon which it bases its management and control
approach. These standards include the following certifications, some of which are specific
to particular business or capability units:

¢ — TickIT (primarily in UK)

« CMMI-Dev

« E-GIF (UK Government inter-operability framework)

« IT-CoBP (UK Government code of best practice)

« CLAS (UK Government accreditation of individual security practice consultants)
« CHECK (IT systems penetration testing standards in our security practice)

« Association of Project Managers

¢ Information Systems Examination Board

The BMS is registered to ISO 9001:2008 for design, development, production, installation
and servicing. The registration to the revised Standard EN ISO 9001:2008 that now
covers UK & Ireland was updated in April 2009.

Fujitsu’s data centre, networks and internet managed-services business have
ISO/EC27001 (Information Security) certification.

All services are based on Fujitsu's best practice standards, informed by the IT
Infrastructure Library (ITIL) & ISO/IEC20000 that are held in the BMS to underpin the
drive to maximise service quality and to promote re-use.

Fujitsu has achieved registration to ISO 14001:2004 for all locations it directly controls on
the UK mainland and Northern Ireland. It has a programme of continual assessment in
place to undertake regular audits across the organisation to ensure it adheres to
1SO014001.

Fujitsu’s Supply and Lifecycle Services (SLS), referenced elsewhere throughout this
response, is our core capability for fulfilling customer's demand for IT products and for
servicing the spares demands associated with field maintenance activities. As with other
parts of our organisation SLS conducts its business activities in accordance with the
corporate policies and processes defined in the Fujitsu Business Management System
(BMS) described above.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 56 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[
I 5.6 Please describe your ability understand the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Act and
I configure Products to ensure POL compliance with the Act.

Fujitsu has procured and supported a number of products for POL with DDA
requirements going far beyond the minimum required by law, for example:

« Hypercom PIN pads (existing device) which has a specially made key mat to
enhance visually-impaired users’ experience. This mat is not standard and is not
used in any other device in the UK

*  Ingenico PIN pads (forthcoming device) also has a specially made mat with the
same specifications, and is also not used in any other environment

e Touch-screen monitors (in the very early 00’s, when the technology was in its
infancy) with sensitivity calibrated to POL’s requirements to enable any user to use,
even those with false limbs; the POS application was built using particular pantones
to enable colour-blind users to use

* Cables are not colour-coded, in order to not disadvantage colour-blind users

¢ PHU equipment (portable POS, regularly connected up by postmasters) has fully
labelled ports, in order to avoid using colour-coordinated cables

To assist POL in meeting DDA requirements, Fujitsu can engage its dedicated team
of user experience consultants and engineers (UECE) with a solid background in
accessibility.

Fujitsu has organised usability and accessibility programmes for a number of
customers, such as UKTI (UK Trade and Investment) and the Cabinet Office, which
have been far-reaching in their remit. We have provided expert heuristic evaluations
of existing online services and offered remedial strategies where issues have been
found, as well as the technical expertise to solve these problems. We have conducted
a number of usability studies to examine the effectiveness of existing user interfaces
and provided UECE services to customers to help redefine application workflows /
processes and improve the overall user experience. Our UECEs have conducted
individual user assessments and assisted in the installation, configuration and
familiarisation with some of the most widely used assistive technology products
available, with specific reference within the Government space (DIUS - Department
for Innovation, Universities and Skills and BERR - Department for Business,
Enterprise & Regulatory Reform[now BIS)).

Members of this group are accredited members of Usability Professional Association
(UPA), and other Special Interest Groups (SIGs) dealing with Human-Computer
Interaction (HCI), including the British Computer Society (BCS) HCI group, and
SIGCHI (the Special Interest Group for Computer Human Interaction of the ACM) and
other organisations that are dedicated to ensuring quality and standards in interface
design.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 57 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

6. PRODUCTS SERVICES - MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT

[
I 6.1 Please explain how you will provide disposal and recycling services for all faulty, obsolete, retired,
I decommissioned or out of date Products, including those not originally supplied by the vendor

Recycle Services, part of Fujitsu’s Supply & Lifecycle Services Operation manages the
reuse, resale and safe disposal of redundant IT equipment. Recycle Services enables
our customers to meet their corporate social responsibilities and data security
requirements and helps maximise their return on investment. Our services cover all
aspects associated with the recycling and refurbishment of IT equipment; from cleaning,
auditing, data purging, testing and disposal and we guarantee compliance with all
environmental legislation.

We hold the necessary licences and permits to cover the WEEE Regulations including an
Environment Agency Waste Management Licence, Authorised Approved Treatment
Facility Permit (AATF), Waste Carrier and Waste Broker licences.

Fujitsu’s commitment
« We safeguard our Customers’ data and their reputation by ensuring adherence to
the Data Protection Act as per the legal requirement
« Government/CESG approved data purge software data wiping tool - Blancco V4.5

« Blancco software for the data purge of digital media such as flash drives - CESG
process approval in progress

« Degausser HDD destruction

« Secure Data Wiping and Hard Disk Destruction can be performed on customer site
anywhere in the UK.

« Fujitsu Recycle Services only partners with authorised / licensed partners

« We ensure our Customers meet their legal obligations under the Waste Electrical
and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) and the Hazardous Waste Regulations

« Fujitsu Recycle Services has over 15 years experience providing services in this
field

« Recycle Services sources second user product to support customers’ current
corporate estates, hence prolonging the life of their equipment and reducing the
Total Cost of Ownership.

« Recycle Services can be deployed as part of an overall technology refresh therefore
minimising user disruption and courier re-visits.

« Recycle Services is a registered Approved Accredited Treatment Facility (AATF)

6.2 Please explain how you will respond to requests by POL’s Level 1 IT Support Help Desk, by providing
Level 2 and Level 3 Support, in the event that failures or problems arise out of IT Products or Services
provided by you.

Fujitsu can, where procured, respond to requests by POL’s Level 1 IT Support Help Desk
to provide Level 2/3 support by utilising its existing support infrastructure and processes
that support the branch network, applications and infrastructure.

Fujitsu shall provide initial Level 2 support through its world class, award-winning Horizon
Desk Service (HSD).

The HSD consists of frontline agents with associated Product Support Engineers, a
Communications Management Team (managing branch network WAN and LAN issues)
and an Incident Management Team (managing higher-priority incidents, incidents at VIP
sites and Problems).

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 58 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

The Product Support Engineers shall have the knowledge and experience required to
undertake support of the relevant products and to make an informed decision as to
whether to involve Level 3 support teams.

The HSD can also have reference equipment in a configuration that is representative of
the live environment to allow the Product Support Engineers to aide diagnosis.

If an on-site Level 3 presence is required Fujitsu can deploy an engineer with the
appropriate level of skill and experience required. This resource will attend site with
replacement equipment, dependent on the support agreement, and could be one of the
following;

« Fujitsu Engineer — the most likely scenario as Fujitsu's engineering division has a
long history and wealth of experience in supporting POL’s branch network and data
centre environments. This coverage and experience ensures that whether the
incident is with a product deployed in the centre of London or the Outer Hebrides
that Fujitsu can respond to POL’s requirements in a timely manner

« Specialist / Manufacturer Engineer — dependent on the equipment that the incident
relates to Fujitsu may elect to deploy a 3rd Party engineer, from either a specialist
support organisation or the equipments manufacturer, depending on the agreed
support or warranty agreements

Fujitsu will manage the end to end process.

6.3 Please explain how you will provide maintenance as necessary to keep the Product in good operating
condition and in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and warranties (and / or other
manufacturer agreements as applicable), so that such Products continue to qualify for the manufacturer's
standard maintenance plan

To ensure that the deployed products are kept in a good operating condition, inline with
the manufacturer’s recommendations, Fujitsu can, where procured, provide;

1. Aschedule of preventative maintenance visits by skilled/accredited engineers that will
service the products at a frequency that will ensure that failures are minimised, thus
maintaining optimum network availability to Post Office Limited’s customers, which in
turn reduces revenue loss associated with equipment being offline

2. Recommendations and input to Post Office Limited’s Branch Operational Manual so
that Post Masters and Sub-Post Masters are aware of activities that they need to
undertake to ensure equipment works at an optimum level

3. Implementation of software patches/updates as recommended by the software
product supplier

By deploying these processes Fujitsu is confident that it shall maintain equipment in good
operating condition and maximise availability to Post Office Limited. Through a
combination of preventative maintenance and close working with Post Office Limited,
Fujitsu has demonstrated a strong capability to maintain equipment in line with
manufacturers’ recommendations and to significantly extend the life of equipment past its
manufacturer's support horizon.

I 6.4 Please explain how you will provide maintenance outside of normal hours to minimise disruption to POL
I and its customers.

Fujitsu can, as agreed with Post Office Limited, provide out of hours maintenance.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 59 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Fujitsu recognises that depending on the amount of time required to perform the
maintenance activity in a branch that careful scheduling of resources and equipment will
be required in conjunction with Post Office Limited and the Post Master or Sub-Post
Master to ensure that access time is maximised without causing unnecessary disruption
of Post Office Limited’s service to its customers.

We have experience of scheduling this kind of time sensitive activity across a wide range
of customers including in its provision of the Horizon service for Post Office Limited where
it delivers scheduled maintenance in the data centre and branch network through the
Operational Business Change service.

One of the reasons we are able to offer this service is that Fujitsu has one of the largest
field-based engineering team capabilities, of approximately 950 engineers, operating
across the UK. These staff possess a broad range of skills, experience and accreditation
in all the key disciplines and technology areas required to design, implement and support
the scope of supply and are already engaged on the provision of current services to POL.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 60 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

7. PRODUCTS SERVICES - IT PROJECT MANAGEMENT

[
I 7.1 Please explain how you will define, develop and agree Product design and technical specifications with
I appropriate functionality to satisfy business requirements

An established Requirements Management process has been successfully used with
Post Office for many years, across many Releases of Horizon and associated products.

Using experienced Business Consultants, Fujitsu engages with POL Stakeholders to
assess, define, refine and baseline Requirements and the associated Solution. With
many years of experience of POL’s business and a foundation of well established
Horizon business applications, products and services Fujitsu helps POL identify the
primary needs and features of new opportunities, products or potential service changes.
These can be developed through workshop techniques and expressed as Use Cases or
requirements statements which are then gradually refined as the assessment of solution
options progress.

Initial engagement often results in a feasibility assessment where outline requirements
and solution options are assessed and indicative costs provided to support POL's
business case. These are then matured to establish a set of Requirements and
associated Acceptance Criteria, which are categorised by priority/importance as
necessary.

The process typically progresses through a period of iteration. The Initial Requirements
Baseline is reviewed and refined alongside the emerging Solution Design to ensure clarity
of interpretation and agreement of assumptions, constraints and phasing.

Requirements are recorded in the POL DOORS repository and synchronised with the
Fujitsu DOORS system which synchronises with the Quality Centre test management
system. This ensures consistency across the requirements lifecycle and provides
traceability of test and acceptance evidence.

Managing change is a necessary feature of the process and is achieved via formal
change management processes or via locally agreed ‘minor changes’ to minimise the
impact on the project timescales.

Recent examples include the complex POL Data Gateway file transfer service, Channel
Integration, new regulation-compliant PIN pads with near-field communication, network
routers for branches, the Horizon data centre topology and products and future strategy.

I 7.2 Please explain how you will undertake a feasibility study to identify and assess which Products present
I the most viable option to satisfy business requirements.

Feasibility studies can be conducted as and when necessary in order to best respond to
requirements, and to expand business cases or provide additional support. We have
recently undertaken a number of feasibility studies with regards to enhancing postmaster
satisfaction and POS availability - giving 373 Postmasters troubleshooting guides for
hardware issues and enabling them to email in specific unresolved issues rather than
phoning, or having spare hardware on site for Postmasters to use at 18 branches. In
each case the potential solution was deployed to small number of branches for a specific
time period, and the results collated and analysed for presentation to both Fujitsu and
Post Office Limited stakeholders. Both studies were carried out in order to develop the
solutions and business cases to provide a best-fit solution to Post Office Limited's stated
requirements.

The recent PIN pad procurement was carried out in conjunction with Post Office Limited,
and involved an analysis of the various merits and drawbacks of the different devices on

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 61 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

the market. This procurement was complicated due to Post Office Limited’s unique
requirements, such as the device needing to contain both retail and banking keys, and a
device was eventually selected and adapted to fully answer all the requirements as well
as potential future business needs such as near field communication.

I 7.3 Please explain how you will support the development of Business Case documentation required by POL I
I to proceed with the Project.

Once requirements have been captured and agreed between both parties, Fujitsu
currently proceeds to develop solutions against these requirements in conjunction with
Post Office Limited, simultaneously developing business cases consisting of, as a
minimum, a financial impact summary and summary of the strategic benefits and
drawbacks.

As an example, a proposal was recently developed for the Branch Managed Switch, an
initiative to leverage the existing Branch Router and Fujitsu network connection to each
branch to consolidate the number of network connections at each branch; this could
reduce the number of physical phone lines from up to 10 (each from different Post Office
Limited suppliers) to just one line, saving Post Office Limited the cost of maintaining
those lines and the associated duplication of network capability. In order to determine the
business case, research was conducted into the various networked hardware within a
branch- i.e. that hardware provided under other, 3rd party, contracts to Post Office
Limited which doesn’t touch the Horizon system or Fujitsu estate- and their long-term
requirements in order to develop a financial business case for Post Office Limited to
justify the investment required. This business case was prepared in several different
versions taking into account potential differences in business requirements, and these
went on to support the recommendations supplied by Post Office’s Executive Committee.

I 7.4 Please explain how you will comply with Prince2 Project Management methodology, including RAID-
I based reporting, throughout the delivery of each individual contract.

In the UK, PRINCE2 is the most common project management methodology and
therefore heavily used by our UK staff. However, Fujitsu’s processes allow for the use of
other methodologies and staff accreditations recognised internationally such as APM,
ISEB, PMI, BCS and Macroscope.

Within the corporate Business Management System that sets out the mandated business
processes that Fujitsu staff must follow, overall ‘Manage Project’ processes are defined
for use by all Fujitsu projects, irrespective of size and nature of deliverables.

The ‘Manage Project’ processes come with a comprehensive set of PM tools such as
detailed processes, templates, and logs. However, Fujitsu recognises that many
customers, including POL, will already have many project management processes in
place prior to engaging with Fujitsu and will adapt accordingly.

The diagram below outlines the key components of our ‘Manage Project’ process
framework (and includes a mapping to the relevant PRINCE2 guidance). Note that the
Direction, Planning and Control processes run in parallel with Initiation, Execution and
Closure.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 62 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

PROJECT DIRECTION
PRINCE2 DP

en . lage Risk

To ensure compliance with the Fujitsu life cycle programme framework, all Fujitsu
Programme Managers and Project Managers are qualified in PRINCE2 or the OGC
certification in Managing Successful Programmes.

The Risk Management Process, which is mandatory throughout the lifecycle from the bid
stage until closure of the contract, defines the mandatory steps (Initiate, Identify, Analyse,
Plan and Manage) and the outputs that are required. It is mandatory that a Risk Plan is
produced and updated throughout the life of the project or service.

The mandatory process is augmented by a range of tools and techniques that are applied
as required, along with extensive advice and guidance available to all staff through
Fujitsu’s intranet.

The process is summarised in the following diagram:

~ © Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited ~ Page 63 of 99

‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

Assess the Business. identify the
Environment e.g. risks
S Baseweas Sites

eeqeceion
* Corporate Responsibility
\dentify Prioritise Risks
allocation
of each risk to
‘or Subcontractor
2 Assign Fujitsu
Maintain the
for actions Riek Pian
For priority risks
Prepare Risk analyse:
Feports and Si raed
items requiring Plan * all impacts:
escalation

7.5 Please explain how you will provide qualified and accredited expertise to manage and support the
delivery of short and long term Projects.

Fujitsu operates a flexible resourcing model to provide resources and optimise resource
utilisation, ensuring that the appropriate skills are acquired and deployed as POL’s
business demands change over time. The model, which has been successfully deployed
with POL over many years, makes sure the right people are available at the right time, by
planning (at pre scheduled regular reviews) and investing in specialist skills development.
Our model allows us to bring a wide diversity of appropriately skilled technical experts to
the customer as and when required. This approach:

e Provides a mechanism for coping with resource or skill excess / scarcity and a
mechanism for additional or emergency cover

e Offers access to a large base of permanent employees covering a wide range of
technical skill sets, competencies and business knowledge

¢ Permits the deployment of additional staff when required by volume or product
skill

We will continue to operate a process of resource flexing to ensure maximum
effectiveness of the teams. This is achieved by using a mixture of Account Team
members and additional flexed-in resources to support the POL-focused team with
additional skills and capabilities.

With over 10,000 staff is UK and Ireland Fujitsu has a wide range of staff to call upon,
supplemented by our specialist sub-contractors. Some examples of staff numbers in
specific and relevant Professional Communities are shown below:

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited - _ age 64 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

Customer Solution Architect 1143
Operations Professionals 4297
Procurement 74
Project Management - PRINCE2 758
Foundation 162 and Practitioner

Service Delivery Management 712
Software and Solution Development 1007

Fujitsu also has one of the largest field-based engineering team capabilities
approximately 950 engineers operating across the UK. These staff possess a broad
range of skills, experience and accreditation in all the key disciplines and technology
areas required to design, implement and support the scope of supply

I 7.6 Please explain how you will identify and define strategies on automating processes to achieve savings
I and increase efficiencies

Fujitsu helps its customers maximise their return on investment in existing or planned IT
implementations; increasing the certainty of business outcomes by adopting a benefit-led
approach. An element of this approach would be to consider whether current or future
planned POL business or IT processes lend themselves to automation.

Our approach is founded on our own operational experience and is outcome driven so
there would be a clear link between our actions and the benefits to POL.

We can:

¢ Build a shared understanding of the outcomes POL wishes, and demonstrate how
an approach to automating a process will meet this
¢ Drive out waste and increase flexibility in business operations

« Manage the change from a business perspective, in parallel with the development
and delivery of IT

We achieve this because:

e We have deep experience in running some of the largest and most complex IT
operations across public and private sector

« We offer an objective, business outcome-led approach that can optimise the
operational improvement delivered by new programmes, or those already in
progress

« Our transformation framework provides a comprehensive checklist and planning
tool to integrate business preparation and change with IT build and deployment

« Our Business Process Discovery, using our unique software tool (BPMe), can use
system data to develop an evidence-based approach to process analysis and
visualisation. This can enable us to determine variation and duplication in processes
—a vital step in determining how automaton can be deployed.

Examples include: automated password resets; automated asset discovery; adoption of

standards such that the integration of future technologies into an existing IT estate can

be highly automated to reduce risk and shorten roll out times.

We have also invested heavily in self-service kiosk based solutions to enable effective

automation of customer interactions and processing of transactions.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 65 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

[7.7 Please explain how you will use your experience and industry knowledge, to assist POL in the delivery of I
I innovative and best-of-breed solutions that represent optimum value

Fujitsu has a broad knowledge and experience base to help drive innovation and sustainable
solutions into all aspects of Post Office’s business. As a global business we serve every market
somewhere in the world. We are able to bring that knowledge to support the Post Office’s diverse
product offerings and business.

We source and supply products for all our customers and either manufacture them ourselves or
draw on our significant partnerships with major suppliers as well as seek innovation through our
small/ medium enterprise program.

Fujitsu has a long history of innovative research and development with 1500 people employed in
our labs. This investment has delivered products ranging from the world’s most powerful super
computer, servers and storage, smart phones and tablets through to software solutions for
automatic business process discovery or its Gartner top quartile value governance methodology.
Often these developments have lead to industry awards such as the recent SAP Pinnacle Award as
Technology Innovator of the year to one of our servers breaking the Virtualisation world record.

By working in partnership with our customers we are able to design solutions that deliver business
benefit for example with Auchan, the global retail chain, to reduce queuing by 40% through
innovative EPOS and check out services including self service kiosks and separating scanning
from payment. In financial services our customers have met the regulatory need for mobile
recording by using the service we provide with Natterbox, a small independent technology
company we have partnered with. Companies have improved their reporting and business
intelligence using SAP HANA, a new hardware platform we have developed in partnership with
SAP. Post Office have recently ordered a CRM solution we are delivering as a hybrid cloud
solution meeting UK data protection rules while still getting the VFM benefits of the cloud.

Post Office have already benefitted from our approach to delivering innovative solutions; the
current Horizon Next Generation EPOS system has its own rapid deployment development

language enabling the Post Office to deliver complex products to market in short timescales
without incurring development costs.

However it is not just being able to produce industry leading knowledge and products but
understanding how these products can be integrated and exploited to achieve lasting business
benefits that really count. As with all customers we would expect to work closely with Post Office
and set up project teams. The team would define both the business and technical requirements
and map these to the business vision and roadmap. Fujitsu uses a process called results chain to
ensure the business outcome and benefits from a particular project are achieved.

Fujitsu’s professional sourcing capability combined with the knowledge in the existing Post Office
account team will be able to reach out through Fujitsu as well as our supplier and partner base to
source solutions that meet Post Office’s requirements at a price point that represents best value.
The joint project team would be involved in overseeing this process and signing off on key stages
(such as prototypes, production samples etc.) as well as overseeing any rollout program to ensure
disruption to normal business and the number of revisits are kept to a minimum. For larger
programmes a joint Governance board would be in place to oversee the process, this was used
recently in the procurement of the unique pin pads that we have sourced for Post Office that
deliver ATM as well as EPOS functionality.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 66 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

7.8 Please explain how you will work with other third party suppliers to deliver Products as part of a wider
project/programme.

We have consistently worked with a number of POL’s third parties in order to deliver services,
whether in a defined multi-sourcing project or otherwise. Some examples include: SAP for POL
(known as POLSAP) provided by Fujitsu and CSC; AEI is a Cogent device and application
provided by a Fujitsu branch networked device; EDG (a CSC file delivery mechanism) receives
Fujitsu data as well as data from other POL third parties; we create, distribute and receive data
files from numerous POL third parties such as Santander, LINK, Wincor Nixdorf and Ingenico on a
daily basis.

Our experience from working with POL, and also on some of the other largest IT programmes in
the UK, means that we fully understand the challenges involved in working collaboratively with
other suppliers - some of whom will, in other circumstances, be our competitors.

It is an essential aspect of Fujitsu’s mode of working that we provide strong and effective
leadership when acting as a “lead” and effective support when enabling other suppliers in lead or
partner roles, showing openness and fairness.

Pragmatic mechanisms to promote successful working in this type of environment include:
e Having one point of leadership established through appropriate leadership steering board and
governance processes with joint membership of appropriate steering groups and boards

e Clear agreements that reflect partner responsibilities for delivery and risk management with
clear roles and responsibilities established (through devices such as RACI charts)

« Terms of Reference and outcomes agreed at the outset to establish clear goals for each
supplier

« Governance and information sharing through collaboration using appropriate tools
e Appropriate stakeholder engagement and communications

e Formal and informal meetings and briefings

« Common quality plan and quality assurance process

« Agreement on tools and methods to be used

e Agree where common collateral and ways of working can best be deployed and where
differences in approaches may need to be managed

e Adopt an open and collaborative way of working with the appropriate mix of formal and
informal contact

e Establishing clear roles and responsibilities ( through devices such as RACI charts)
« Being empathetic and flexible to the needs of other parties

Clear lines of responsibility, empathetic working and successful communication are essential to
functioning effectively with all parties to deliver POL's required outcomes and we believe that we
have demonstrated this in our continuing engagement with POL.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 67 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

8. RELATED SERVICES - ADVISORY

I 8.1 Please explain how you will provide guidance and support through a close working relationship with POL I

I and other stakeholders to assist with the provision of IT Products be they either hardware or software to

I satisfy business and operational requirements.

At Fujitsu, we help our customers overcome the complex challenges they face, using IT to
make them more adaptable and responsive. With over 35 years’ experience in the retail
sector, we work with more than 500 retailers across every market sector in more than
82,000 stores globally.

Despite pioneering some of the most innovative technologies in the retail sector, we begin
by looking at the consumer experience, not the technology. Our Japanese and European
heritage allows us to approach business relationships from a distinct perspective. We
value long-term partnerships and offer a realistic view of the benefits technology can
bring.

Successful IT products are chosen to meet defined business outcomes. All too often
people jump straight into solutioning and scope the problem to fit the solution. Fujitsu
approaches things the right way round. We start by building trusted relationships with key
stakeholders within the business. By understanding the business outcomes required we
help customers finalise their functional and non functional requirements through
collaborative workshops and analysis of the business areas impacted. To clearly illustrate
how initiatives drive outcomes we create a results chain that demonstrates the business
and financial impact individual initiatives have in driving the desired end result. With
appropriate initiatives identified we then explore more detailed requirements (functional
and non-functional) to validate our approach to the initiative with the customer
stakeholder.

It is important that the relationship with business stakeholders and IT representatives is
strong and there is trust and respect in our resources experience and industry knowledge.
Fujitsu already demonstrates this working with Post Office through the business and
technical resources that spend considerable time in Old Street working with stakeholders
and the Post Office IT team on solutions to new business opportunities. Our aim is to let
you focus on business rather than IT.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 68 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 8.2 Please explain how you will work with POL to support the identification of market leading IT Products.

IT is a business resource and a business driver. Technology must be a practical enabler of the
organisation, not a tax on its activities. IT products and services must be easy to access,
transparent as to costs, and above all relevant to current and future business needs.

At Fujitsu we have a saying; “Do more with less”: The technology business is driven by falling costs
and increasing capabilities. This is why Fujitsu as a service-led organisation adopts an open door
policy to platforms, architectures and technology partners. We use the best tools and techniques,
whatever their origin. We are leaders in the movement towards cloud computing, which entails
redefining much of our traditional business as a utility.

Fujitsu understands innovation; we've been doing it for over seventy years. We also understand
that great ideas and innovative solutions can happen anywhere. That's why Open Innovation is so
powerful and that is why we've created the Open Innovation Service. Open Innovation means
finding the right solution, the best ideas and the brightest minds, wherever they may be, and
bringing them together to meet business challenges whether they're unique to Post Office or faced
by everyone in retail or consumer-facing sectors. The Open Innovation Service gives you access to
a worldwide innovation capability.

Fujitsu can help to assemble an ecosystem of talent and solutions that will drive positive business
outcomes for Post Office. You will be able to:

« Gain expert perspectives on innovations that matter to you

e Explore existing business problems, exploit our expertise and identify innovative solutions
e Understand and influence Fujitsu's R&D roadmap

e Find new ways to exploit your innovative solutions

e Reduce the costs of innovation by collaborating with Fujitsu and its partners to develop
shared solutions

We have 35+ years of experience working with retailers across all sectors and geographies,
bringing together the best hardware, software and services from Fujitsu and third parties to deliver
modern, integrated solutions for retailers. We carry out large-scale IT and business change
programmes for retailers around the world, where “best-of-breed” IT products are used to deliver
real benefit. In America, we have helped businesses such as Kroger and Staples to transform their
Point of Sale (PoS) experience. In Europe, our queue-busting technology helped Vodafone improve
customer service and increase profits. A long-standing relationship with Starbucks in China has
driven down costs and improved the overall customer experience. The work we carried out with
Woolworths in Australia required us to overhaul the group's entire Point of Sale environment, which
included 17,000 PoS lanes and around 400,000 components.

The reference to these global achievements is intentional. We leverage the wider Fujitsu
organisation to ensure our customers take full advantage of the many levels of experience and
resource we have available, from our extensive R&D in Japan, through to our numerous partner
frameworks. With development capability around the world, Fujitsu has its own rich pool of
products and retail applications covering a whole range of in-store systems; Point of Sale,
Customer Loyalty & Relationship Management, Supply Chain and Business Analytics. Fujitsu also
have access to a large number of partner companies who can provide products that extend our in-
house capabilities & complement our IT products.

Fujitsu actively engages with and supports many Independent Software Vendors (ISV), who bring
new and innovative solutions to the table. Through our ISV Framework Programmes we present
Opportunities for our customers to take advantage of these innovative products whilst protecting
them from the risks these smaller companies can present. We have observed that using ISVs.
means our customers don’t need to worry about staying current (technology refreshes, etc.) and the
ISVs benefit from the support and presence of the large and know brand of Fujitsu.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 69 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[8.3 Please explain how you will participate in a feasibility study to identify and, benchmark various options to
I produce the delivery of best-in-class Products

Fujitsu participates in many feasibility studies and trials with Post Office and other
customers. We utilise our own industry and market sector experts, alongside recognised
industry standard research (e.g. from groups like Gartner) to inform and guide potential
options (typically in top quartile). Within Post Office’s multi-supplier frameworks model we
will ensure strong relationships are in place with other suppliers and the Service
Integrator so that the full lifecycle of any product can be understood. We will then
construct an approach that covers:

1. Scope: Without clear definition of the problem or outcome required any feasibility
study or trial will struggle to identify potential value and benefit.

2. Current Analysis: A clear understanding of current (and forecast) transaction
breakdown, timings, volumes etc. will allow the approach, and any product
selection, to deliver maximum benefit and return on investment. We will approach
technology with a roadmap that takes you beyond the technology today, whilst
considering appropriate use of components and product families already deployed
into the estate.

3. Requirements: Requirements will be catalogued in an appropriate manner for the
product or solution being considered.

4. The Approach: represents the recommended solution or course of action to
address the requirements. Any study will critically examine whether requirements
have been fulfilled by the proposed approach, and whether the approach is
practical and viable.

5. Evaluation: examines the cost effectiveness of the Approach selected. This begins
with an analysis of the estimated total cost of the project. In addition to the
recommended solution, other alternatives are estimated in order to offer an
economic comparison.

6. Review: The review serves two purposes: to substantiate the thoroughness and
accuracy of the Feasibility Study, and to make a project decision; either approve it,
reject it, or ask that it be revised before making a final decision.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 70 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

r
I 8.4 Please explain how you will document high-level and detailed requirements, both functional and non-

I functional and ensure that Products required by POL are well defined in accordance with POL's standards
I and procedures.

Establishing Business and Operational requirements is part of an established Requirements
Management process that has been successfully used with Post Office for many years and across
many Releases of Horizon functionality.

Using experienced Business Consultants, Fujitsu regularly engages with Post Office Stakeholders.
and Business Analysts to assess, define, refine and baseline Requirements and their associated
Solution response. With many years of practical experience of the POL business and with a solid
foundation of well established Horizon business applications and services, Fujitsu helps POL
identify the primary needs and features of new business opportunities or beneficial service
changes. These will be developed through workshop techniques, and expressed as either Use
Cases or requirements statements which are then gradually refined as the assessment of solution
options progress.

Initial engagement may often result in a feasibility assessment where outline requirements and
solution options are assessed and indicative costs provided to support POL’s business case.
These will then be matured through further engagement to establish a set of Requirements and
associated Acceptance Criteria, which are categorised by priority or importance as necessary.

The requirements management process then typically progresses through a period of iteration
whereby the Initial Requirements Baseline is reviewed and refined alongside the emerging Solution
Design to ensure clarity of interpretation and agreement of assumptions, constraints and phasing.

Requirements are recorded in the POL DOORS repository and synchronised with the Fujitsu
DOORS system which in turn synchronises with the Quality Centre test management system. This
ensures consistency across the requirements lifecycle and provides traceability of test and
acceptance evidence back to the original requirements.

Managing change is recognised by Fujitsu and POL as a necessary feature of the process and is
achieved via either formal change management processes or via locally agreed ‘minor changes’ to
minimise the impact on the project timescales.

Post Office needs to comply with many industry standards, be they banking, Payment Card
Industry standards for EMV card use, or DDA advisory standards to ensure products and services
remain accessible for the disabled. During our long relationship with Post Office and our many
other retailers, Fujitsu has consistently delivered end user products, back-end system, and support
& security services that are proven to scale to large enterprise deployments. Fujitsu already
provides Post Office with robust solutions that uniquely enables your PIN pads to provide both
banking and chip-and-PIN transactions, something no other retailer can do. Post Office is one of
the UK’s biggest cash handlers processing over 22 million banking transactions and 4 million debit
card transactions every month. Branches need to be able to manage cash and card transactions
effectively and securely, complying with stringent banking and Payment Card Industry regulations
and standards. Fujitsu’s Horizon Online supports over 2.5 billion transactions at the counter in a
year, with a cash value of nearly £100 billion and provides a service to nearly 12,000 branches and
over 30,000 counters, including the British Armed Forces worldwide. That’s more than the “Big 4”
UK high street banks combined.

8.5 Please explain how you will work closely with business units and key stakeholders to gather I
requirements for Products and identify and record priorities for each individual requirement. I

Fujitsu values long-term relationships and the importance of close working engagement with key
stakeholders within your business. By understanding your drivers, challenges and opportunities we
can positively contribute to the gathering of requirements to deliver your business outcomes. Using
experienced Business and Technical Consultants we will help you develop your requirements.
through workshop techniques, use cases and requirement statements. We capture requirements
into a Requirements Catalogue and detail the source, priority and business reason for each. These
are refined as the assessment of solution options progresses.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 71 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

This process is also described as part of our response to 8.4 where we detail how we can
use experienced Business Consultants to engage with Post Office Stakeholders and
Business Analysts to assess, define, refine and baseline Requirements and their
associated Solution response. We have many years of experience of the POL business
and have a solid understanding of well established Horizon business applications and
services. Fujitsu has helped POL identify the primary needs and features of new business
opportunities or beneficial service changes through workshops and the development of
Use Cases or requirements statements which can then be progressively developed as the
assessment of solution options progress.

I 8.6 Please explain how you will provide full traceability against all requirements identified during requirements I
I definition.
I

Fujitsu captures requirements using a Dynamic Objects-Oriented Requirements Systems
(DOORS). DOORS is a collaborative requirements management environment that allows
stakeholders to actively participate in the requirements process. This leading solution for
requirements management ensures all information, such as the source and history of the
requirement, are stored in an accessible database that can be shared across participating
organisations. DOORS allows coverage and gap analysis to be performed on the
captured requirement. It also provides strict configuration management and change
control facilities. In the long-term this ensures a full audit-trail, and traceability of the
justification and reasoning behind any particular mandated requirement or guidance note
is maintained.

As part of our Business as Usual practice with Post Office, requirements are recorded in
the Post Office DOORS repository and synchronised with the Fujitsu DOORS system
which in turn synchronises with the Quality Centre test management system. This
ensures consistency across the requirements lifecycle and provides traceability of test
and acceptance evidence back to the original requirements. Our approach to testing is
given in our response to question 4.5.

I 8.7 Please explain how you will work with POL to identify Products that adhere to the Disibilty Discrimination
I Act legislation, either as a standalone Product, with some configuration or through providing for alternative
I arrangements.

From 1 October 2010, the Equality Act replaced most of the Disability Discrimination Act.
However, the Disability Equality Duty in the DDA continues to apply. The Equality Act
gives disabled people important rights of access to everyday services. Service providers
have an obligation to make reasonable adjustments to premises or to the way they
provide a service. Access to services is not just about physical access, it is about making
services easier to use for everybody. What is considered a reasonable adjustment for a
large organisation may be different from a reasonable adjustment for a small local shop.
It is about what is practical in the service provider's individual situation and what
resources the business may have.

They will not be required to make adjustments that are not reasonable because they are
unaffordable or impractical. Fujitsu works with retailers in every market sector across a
global geography giving us valuable experience in the practicalities of delivering services
with equality, dignity and respect. In some cases this can be as simple as advising on
signage to ensure it is well-defined for people with impaired vision, or guidance on the
appropriate re-use of space. However, the appropriate design of any IT product is
essential, so we seek input and advice from various disability groups to ensure

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 72 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

accessibility and use of IT solutions is as practical as possible. By taking a modular
approach to many of our IT products we can easily accommodate different designs (e.g.
height or screen size) without compromising the complexity or integration of the solution.

A good example of our approach in this area is the deployment of PIN pads to Post
Office. Fujitsu led the procurement process for Post Office to deliver a solution that
accommodates contrasting colour use on buttons, through to mounting solutions for easy
access.

I 8.8 Please explain how you will work with POL staff to design branch layouts that enhance the IT-related
I customer experience.

Getting the design of a branch right is critical if you’re to give your customer the best retail
experience possible. You may have a market-leading self service solution, but if
customers have to fight their way through a queue of customers waiting for other
services, or the kiosks are at the back of the store and not immediately accessible, their
success is diminished. We work with retailers across every market sector so understand
what IT products work well, and what doesn’t. We often engage early with retailers and
their building/outfitter to design the technology into the branch design. We have
successfully integrated products into furniture for customers to help secure equipment in
open customer areas, improve accessibility for faster repairs, address needs for disabled
access, and generally offer better ergonomics and design.

Fujitsu has also used innovative technology to study customer movement within a branch.
Through the use of heat sensitive CCD cameras and software we are able to produce
“heat maps” that identify highly congested areas over a period of time. By understanding
how customer move through a shop, and how/where customers wait for service, we can
advise on the most appropriate layout of positioning of IT products.

We have worked with retailers to deploy queue management systems that improve the
customer experience by removing the traditional queue by moving customers into specific
zones within a branch where they can wait in a more comfortable environment. Queue
management systems also help reduce wait time by analysing demand and allowing
assisted services to be assigned and flexed accordingly.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 73 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 8.9 Please explain how you will ensure that the usability requirements of a Product are well defined and
I achieve user friendly experiences, including how you would use market information and research to advise
I on Products that are familiar, usable and accessible to customers.

Delight a customer when they shop with you and they are more likely to return and spend
more money with you — it’s elementary customer service. To get this customer
experience right, retailers need to shift from an operational model based on the
company’s needs to a more customer-centric approach, mapping out the customer
journey across channels. Experience is based on emotion so the experience of a
customer is based on how they feel whilst shopping. If retailers want their customers to
enjoy their shopping experience and come back, a customer perspective is required.
Allowing the customer to feel as though they are in control of their experience is a major
attraction of the modern retail environment.

Over the last 25 years consumers have seen a dramatic change in the way they do their
shopping, banking and purchase groceries. Interacting through a physical store, on-line or
through call-centres have become common choices offered by many of the high street
retailers, banks and grocers. And it is not always the retailer or bank providing all the
service — increasingly customers are serving themselves.

Take for example self-service technology. This is making a big impact in the market, and
its impact is generally very positive. Customers really value the speed, convenience and
flexibility that they get from being able to use the channel that suits them, when it suits
them. Research completed by Fujitsu into customers’ attitudes to self-service technology
shows that customers of all age groups are embracing new ways of doing things. The
study found that whilst there was no doubt that self-service was well-received (69% said
they agreed or strongly agreed with the statement “technology and automated services
are here to improve the efficiency and convenience of our lives”), consumers still want
some opportunity to deal with people. The introduction of self-service and assisted-
service technology into Post Office branches has the potential to greatly enhance the
customer experience, and their interaction with the Post Office brand. It addresses the
gap created by those customers without access to, or uncomfortable using, on-line
services, but who want convenience, flexibility and efficiency when going to a Post Office.

Most of the high street banks have moved to more open plan branches where the number
of secure fortress counters has been reduced in favour of self-service kiosks to cater for
the low value, high volume transactions. By freeing counter clerks to engage with
customers “on the shop floor” they are able to encourage use of the kiosks and empower
their customers to take control of their experience with them.

Fujitsu is constantly reviewing how consumers’ needs and demands are adapting. We
employ experts in each market sector to advise our product developments, and help our
customers define their requirements for future IT solution. We have hundreds of certified
professionals who work closely with products and partners in industry leading
technologies. Through our extensive partner relationships, we have access to suppliers
who create market leading technology that is often supported by multi-million pound
research into usability and acceptability in the real work.

Fujitsu would utilise this wealth of experience, consumer research and industry expert
analysis to help Post Office define requirements that ensure any IT product/solution
provides a familiar and simple to use solution for the customer or end-user.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 74 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 8.10 Please explain how you will Identify and advise on market leading Products that meet defined
I requirements but have a variety of footprints to provide options which are suitable for branches with a small I
I footprint. I

Fujitsu's established relationship with Post Office provides us with a unique insight of
branch operations, an appreciation of the constraints on space, and the support
requirements necessary to ensure any deployed IT product maintains the highest levels
of availability. As the Post Office branch network transforms and greater emphasis is
placed on customer convenience and choice, the use of a variety of assisted and self-
service options will be required. Finding products that fit functional requirements is critical
to customer acceptance and achieving a high level of customer satisfaction, and thus
usage. But non-functional requirements relating to how a device is supported and
maintained is equally important. Fujitsu has extensive experience of utilising a component
based approach to IT solutions. By using standardised components from product families,
a variety of footprint and functional options can be achieved using the same core
elements. This simplified integration, provides cost benefits for procurement, and
simplified the support processes.

As has been discussed in earlier responses in this section, Fujitsu ensures there is a well
understood set of business outcomes and documented requirements catalogue,
supported by use case scenarios. This then drives the product decisions and how service
is presented to the customer.

Let's make this real, and take the example scenario of self-service postal kiosks. Postal
services remain a key driver of foot-fall into a branch, and protecting the personal and
SME revenue for parcel postage is a key business objective. Customers need fast,
efficient ways of completing their transaction, yet many branches simply don’t have the
space to accommodate large dedicated pieces of self-service equipment. Having agreed
outcomes and requirements, Fujitsu would explore various use case scenarios to
understand how transaction volumes, peak-demand and customer flow through the
branch are impacted. We would then look to define the product requirements to cater for
multiple needs. Much of the space in self service kiosks is taken up with coin and note
handling units. Creating a cashless self-service solution is one way of creating both small
devices, but also helping control customer movement, particularly in larger branches
where many self-service machines would be required. We would also break the solution
down to component parts; the screen, processing unit, PIN Pad, printers, coin/note
handlers/recyclers etc., selecting common components that allow a single approach to
business systems integration and support services to be provided.

Fujitsu considers new approaches to business operation — in our use case scenarios. For
example, we worked with Auchan, the large international retailer, to open the first fully
self-service hypermarket in Europe. We analysed the end-to-end transaction profile and
proposed a variety of solutions, one of which saw the traditional checkout clerk moved to
the customer side of the belt to assist with scanning and packing, then coupled with a self-
service payment solution. This freed the clerk to move on to serving the next customer
leading to a 40% improvement in check-out processing times.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 75 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
9.

POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

RELATED SERVICES - IT PROCUREMENT

I 9.1 Please explain how you will provide Sourcing and eAuctioning services on behalf of POL. Explain your
I processes and tools describing any benefits that you would bring to POL by using your services in this area

Our Procurement Strategy directs our Supplier Evaluation and Selection Criteria as well as
Supplier improvement activities. It assures continuity of its procurement objectives and activities.
Fujitsu’s e-Auctioning capability is current under strategic review and subject to internal Investment
Board approval. We have previous experience of running e-Auctions and our strategic review
shows our commitment in this area.

The strategy is designed to deliver a sustainable step change in the management of external
relationships that results in:

e Securing genuine competitive advantage through the effective management of external

supplier relationships

e Ensuring Fujitsu presents a single image to the supplier that is in line with the identified
Procurement Strategy (i.e. act, communicate and behave consistently)

e Providing a stable platform for performance and value enhancing initiatives both jointly (with
suppliers) and separately
The specific business objectives are:
e Maximising the value of the supplier relationship to both Fujitsu and the supplier (reducing
total cost of ownership, for both parties)
« Minimising supply and supplier problems
« Improving customer focus through supplier performance management.
e Seizing cost reduction opportunities for ourselves and our clients
« Improving processes
The Procurement Strategy is a steering component of Fujitsu’s Supplier Management Programme.
It is derived from corporate strategies, and impacts all the elements of Supplier Management, as
per the Goal Tree below. It is supported by suite of tools and many tens of best practice templates
and tooling covering areas such as sourcing, research, SWOT, evaluation, RFI and RFP
specification, statement of work, e-Auction suitability assessment — all residing under a mandatory
Procurement Master Policy.

Procurement's High Level ‘Strategic’ Goal Tree

Fujitsu Winning Strategies Opportunities & Drivers
Top Level en ‘Manage Volatility and Mitigate Ri ]
Implementation Saee
Excellence geaterd I
Growth! “I Implementinga Effective Govemance (intemal & Third I
Profital Eee Documenting te processes]
I Service compliance wif IS standards & I
Cost! rae Supe LING
Utilise eee aa
Produetiviy I I procurements Process I I pesuritin Sanka tiny
Experiseand Excellence I vendor Pertomance easuremert
Knowledge Optimise I using Scorecards
Vision! asa competitive Procurement oS
Values advantage for I I Se
Fujitsu & its. I saecaiechaaeana Brive Continuous improve
customers I I (ean Prince
Cash! - ——— ~ SpendanalyaiaCon Reaucton
Working I Sourcing clive Procurement Cycle
Capital ‘5 Excellence Utilise RFx Process to drive cost
Strategic Sourcing I benefits through competi

Page 76 of 99
28 May 2012

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited

‘Commercial in Confidence
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

10.

RELATED SERVICES - TRAINING

I 10.1 Please explain how you will train POL staff on the use of Products you install

Fujitsu is in a position to be able to source specialist product training for you through our
supplier management process. If there is a specific requirement that needs to be met —
for example, you require a specific accreditation that we have to source for you — supplier
management contract with multiple training providers will allow us to meet with the
majority of your technology product based training needs. Having this supplier
management contract in place with accredited providers means we have an extensive
portfolio of accredited training courses we can draw upon to meet your needs. Should
you require additional courses that are not currently contained within our specific
catalogue they can source these on our behalf.

We currently have over 600 technology-related courses within the Fujitsu Learning and
Development Catalogue, which is managed by our Capability Development Operations
Team.

We also have internal trainers working either within the Learning and Development
Practice or within a Service Line who provide training for customer specific products. By
utilising product-specific trainers, where appropriate, we are able to provide more specific
and effective learning due to their working knowledge of the products.

We have an extensive catalogue available within Fujitsu, for externally sourced or
internally provided training courses. Against your requirements for Office/Branch IT, we
currently have access to a range of training interventions (face to face and e-learning)
that will support you in the following areas:

« Computers & Peripherals

¢ Software Products

« Desktop Communications

¢ Finance Products

Should we identify new requirements, we work with you to develop the most suitable
solution to meet the needs of the POL Team. In previous engagements with POL we
used, for example, a “train the trainer” approach supported with Quick Use Guides.

I 10.2 Please explain how you will ensure that your training programme provides for different levels of
I knowledge and understanding on the Product and its capabilities.

We recognise that POL teams will have different levels of skills and knowledge at the
point of introduction of new Office/Branch IT.

We will work with you to conduct a Learning Needs Analysis to ascertain the current level
of knowledge, skill, and experience within the POL team in relation to the Office/Branch
IT, followed by a scoping period whereby we define the future level of knowledge, skills
required, along with the opportunities to develop workplace experience. The resulting gap
analysis will form the learning outcomes for the programme.

Partnering with you and product specialists, we will utilise the Training Accreditation
Programme (Queens Award for Innovation) approach to build a framework to meet your
requirements. This framework allows us to build a programmatic approach to training
linking business outcomes to assessment and evaluation to ensure that the design
solution will flex to suit varying individual and product capabilities. This enables us to
develop accelerated learning activities based on simulation, demonstration, individual
experience and practical application supported by a range of developmental materials
including workbooks, user manuals, webcasts and podcasts for example.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 77 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

We will build a solution that will provide your learners with the product knowledge they
need (Security Network Servers, Banknote Verification Systems, POS Devices etc), in
addition to giving them the opportunity to practice and embed their learning in a safe
environment with experts on hand to facilitate the learning experience.

Our highly experienced facilitators are adept at delivering learning outcomes in a flexible
manner to meet the needs of the learners, regardless of the level, type or prior
experience. They utilise and are fully conversant with adult learning theory and the
multiple intelligences, engaging with groups to ensure that all participants finish with the
same level of knowledge and skill, regardless of the different levels they begin with.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 78 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 10.3 Please explain how you will provide different methods and tools to deliver training for POL staff.

Different methods and tools are detailed in the table below:

Face to face Designed to enable individuals to ‘work things out’ in a safe environment. Generally consists of
less theory and more practical application and activities to give learners the confidence to apply
the learning. This can be through demonstration in a lab, or practical application in a workshop
ALS Action Learning Sets (ALS) are based upon the concept of learning by reflection (or reviewing) on
an experience. It is underpinned by the cycle of experiential learning as shown below, where the
stages of reviewing and concluding are worked through with the Set. In practice many of us tend
to short circuit this cycle and often skip the reviewing phase as it is difficult to do out of context.

Work Workbooks can be useful to guide the learner through actual work, completion of exercises and
books activities throughout the learning experience and act as a record of the learning journey the
individual has taken.

A3 reports Can benefit visual learners and are advantageous to learners who have minimal workplace to
store folders. This can be created so that the whole programme is on a page with space for the
top tips and techniques that will be used.

Tools

Flash cards Generally used to summarise key points or theory and are easily carried in the laptop bag or
wallet. They reduce the amount of storage required when they are taken back to the office space
and contain only the information that an individual needs to apply their learning.

upport Methods &

Web-cast The ability to provide content directly to the learner by delivering the learning on web
conferencing tools and recording that delivery for future uses.

Pod- cast A digital media file that is downloaded directly from a streaming Internet source. The media files
are downloaded onto a computer, whether it is a home PC or a Mac, and then can be directly
downloaded onto a digital media device like an iPod or other MP3 player. Many people simplify
the podcast definition simply by calling it an online, pre-recorded radio program over the Internet.
Vod-cast A digital media file that contains digital video that can be streamed directly from the internet or
internal server. Media files are downloaded just like the Podcast and webcast.

Social Forum Threads set up to encourage discussion of a certain topic, sharing ways to overcome problems in
a particular area, requires an administrator to ensure the topic remains on track and the threads
are not becoming counter-productive.

On-line Often used for knowledge training, where the delegate needs to understand how to do a task. Also
has the functionality to screen capture to demonstrate how to do an on-line activity.

Virtual Class Delivery of content using technology, sessions are no more than 60 minutes, interactive and
room delivered by 1-2 facilitators. Content has to be designed specifically for this and cannot be used
as a replacement for face to face sessions unless it has been designed to be delivered in this
way.

Project A project that is set after the completion of a learning programme that enables the individual to
demonstrate the application of the theory and concepts in the work place. Allows for immediate
transfer of learning and measurement against business objectives.

Assessment/ An approach to assessing/developing candidates. It is based on using a number of tools and
Development I activities, usually including such things as work-sample tests, group discussions and simulations,
Centre in which candidate performance is observed against pre defined competence/skills.

Enabled
Methods and

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 79 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

[ take many forms.

I 10.4 Please explain how you will ensure that your training programmes are fit-for-purpose and have
I successful outcomes for attendees.

In order to ensure your training programmes are fit for purpose and have not only successful, but
measurable outcomes for your attendees and the business, our Learning Consultants will work in
partnership with you to establish the current and future states before advising on the solution. We
will work with you to:

e Articulate tangible & deliverable business outcomes and learning needs
« Effectively qualify and clarify the individual needs

e Build in checkpoints to ensure needs are being met throughout the solution design and
delivery

e Drawing on blended learning and natural learning solutions to ensure delivery mechanisms
are relevant and successfully utilised by the attendees

e Set clear learning outcomes for each intervention directly linked to the capability required to
operate the technology/product

e Ensure assessments are built into the learning to ascertain immediate effectiveness as well
conducting longer term evaluation and assessment

e Clearly articulate to the attendees prior to each session, or programme, what form the
interventions will take and what knowledge and skills they can expect to gain from the
session

e Ensure the attendees to embed the skills and knowledge learn and create action plans and
scenarios to take the learning forward

We will work in partnership with your business to understand what has worked well in the past and
what needs to be supported whilst being intentional about the level of challenge we can build into
learning to get the best from your people. Your learning and development must epitomise the
balance between challenge and support so that every new training project or solution stretches the
organisation as much as the individuals, and is aligned with the Post Office Vision; it encompasses
the soft skills elements required to embed new Office/Branch IT systems.

This means that we have to understand how you see the potential impact and value of the solution
so that we can develop materials that are highly relevant to the key audiences but that are reusable
to secondary audiences if required.

Working as part of a multi-disciplinary team, we will offer a consistent approach to formulating
learning events, whilst embracing modern learning innovations such as blended and natural
learning. Delivering IT product training to a range of users requires a flexible yet robust framework
for delivery; facilitators are accredited in facilitation techniques as well as product specialist
accreditations (where appropriate). For example we have MS Certified Practitioners, CISCO CCIE
Specialist, Information and Security Specialists, SaaS specialists, Hosting & Networking experts,
End User Services (including Service Desks and first line hardware/software support).

We pride ourselves on creating innovative events that result in the application of skills and a sense
of confidence and motivation combined with the appetite to go back into the workplace, committed
to using the learning and to making a difference. By linking capability and confidence as the two
key outcomes of workplace learning, this principle drives towards a cycle of practice, reflection and
improvement, which entails using different opportunities and methods of learning. This approach
will support POL by enabling continuous learning for the individual in terms of not only their product
knowledge but also their transferable capability between the Office or Branch Products.
Enhancements to products or services that lead to a training need can be easily conveyed to
attendees/learners using rapid delivery mechanisms such as virtual top up sessions.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 80 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

We will review the structure, content, objectives and the delivery methods in line with evaluation
feedback on a monthly basis. This will inform a maintenance cycle for products and will allow you
to review the training effectiveness in line with your overall plan for the POL Team.

I 10.5 Please explain how you will work with POL to design training programmes that are fit-for-purpose.

People learn in different ways, environments, and at different paces.

In order to ensure your training programmes are fit for purpose and have not only
successful, but measurable outcomes for your attendees and the business, our Learning
Consultants will work in partnership with you to establish the current and future states
before advising on the solution. Ensuring that we link solutions directly to skills and
competency we will source solutions that enhance skills sets to add value to the POL
Team and ensure that product training is specific and relevant to your environment.
Effectively qualifying and clarifying the organisational needs will set clear outcomes for
each intervention and will ensure robust assessment of not only the effectiveness of the
training solution (Kirkpatrick Level 1 and 3) but also, should you require it, of the
attendees.

We will work in partnership with your business to understand what has worked well in the
past and what needs to be supported but at the same time, being intentional about the
level of challenge we can build into learning to get the best from your people. Your
learning and development must epitomise the balance between challenge and support so
that every new training project or solution stretches the organisation as much as the
individuals and is aligned with the Post Office Vision and encompasses the soft skills
elements required to embed the Products. We design to a set of standards that ensure
consistency of message, format, delivery and evaluation so that each intervention is
capable of being delivered by a range of qualified facilitators. Collateral that is created
(user manuals, workbooks, tips sheets, troubleshooting FAQs etc) will be maintained and
updated to allow for general use and circulation, with regular updates being provided as
required.

I 10.6 Please explain how you will ensure that training is designed with alignment to POL Vision and enables
I staff to embrace change and adapt to new technologies

We will ensure that our partners and our teams fully understand the POL Vision and the
training strategy by having access to our POL Account Team specialists. Our
consultancy team will work with you to determine the specific business outcomes and
levels of organisational competence you want to achieve through the introduction of new
technologies, and work to map skills, capabilities and performance in to that vision.
Working together through a Performance Needs Analysis we can support you in the
definition and measurement of the impact your training strategy can have if executed in
the right way.

Using our suppliers and our internal teams we can articulate learning and training
solutions to meet the diverse needs of many audiences at varying levels of capability. We
will develop programme architectures with you, the high level design concepts that
underpin and tie the learning frameworks to your business outcomes and advise on how
we can effectively embed that learning in times of change. Most learning solution
recommendations will be blended. CIPD have reported that blended learning has quickly
established itself as the preferred approach for organisations that wish to optimise their
use of the resources available for training while making no compromises with learning
effectiveness. Blended learning takes advantage of new online learning technologies,
using these alongside the wide range of existing face-to-face and self-study methods to
generate new combinations that outperform traditional approaches. Through using a
combination of blended and natural learning approaches we provide a programmatic

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 81 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

approach to learning, allowing staff to control their own learning journeys and experience,
giving them the opportunity to practice and embed the knowledge and skills they have
learned in innovative and engaging ways. As people change, environments change and
so do our technologies, we can help you to realise the potential in your staff.

I 10.7 Please explain how you will provide and deliver ‘User Product’ training for general operation and
I maintenance.

Providing high quality training to POL staff on the ongoing maintenance of Products, use
of Products and Products Enhancements is paramount to the achievement of the
Strategic Vision and Training Strategy. We will engage in a partnership approach to the
identification and delivery of Office/Branch IT product training using industry expertise,
business experts and end user commentary.

The scoping phase of the design will enable us to determine how the live product will be
used and the environment in which the end users will operate in order to inform the
appropriate delivery mechanism for the solution. The solution will be based on the
identified learning need and outcomes to be achieved as well as the environmental
factors. Interactive and Blended Approaches to Learning underpin the Solution
development framework which enables a balance between support & stretch and theory
& practical interventions for general operation and maintenance allowing for relevant POL
end user training (i.e. delivered to PDAs, Netbooks, Smart Phones, Desk Tops as
required) . We can offer a natural learning journey to our technical participants to embed
and develop skills through further reading and online training which covers specific tasks
in more detail (and is delivered in a variety of ways depending on the Office/Branch
product).

Given the nature of the business we are linked to many strategic partners (CISCO & Mitel
for example), all of whom, offer a range of software and hardware solutions that we can
capitalise on when providing a fit for purpose solution. Based on your requirement we will
identify the partner organisation, leading specialist product supplier (such as HP), or
allocate to our internal Capability Development Practice.

We are able to provide a range of services that will support the training rollout of
Office/Branch IT supported by industry leaders and expertise.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 82 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 10.8 Please provide details on any accreditation you may have to provide training for specific Products.

In terms of accreditations for technical products we have 1000 people accredited in different
products and software. Within these skills sets we also have access to specialists who can train
others in the expertise. For example, we have a number of CISCO CCIE qualified Trainers, MS
Practitioners and VMWare specialists.

If we do not hold the accreditation you require we source appropriate specialists through our
supplier management process to ensure you have access to a cadre of skills and accreditations.
Fujitsu is in a position to be able to source specialist product training for you through our supplier
management process. If there is a specific requirement that needs to be met — for example, you
require a specific accreditation that we have to source for you — supplier management contract with
multiple training providers will allow us to meet with the majority of your technology product based
training needs. Having this supplier management contract in place with accredited providers means
we have an extensive portfolio of accredited training courses that we can draw upon to meet your
needs. Should you require additional courses that are not currently contained within our specific
catalogue they can source these on our behalf.

Technical Skill # Accredited
Microsoft 305
EMC 55
IBM 130
VMWare 69
Citrix 79
CA 89
Cisco 42
Oracle 61
CwsP 2
Red Hat 32
SAP 12
Symantec 13
NetApp 20
BMC 19
SUN 9
Unix 17
HP 17
ISTQB 17
ISEB 7
Metastorm 11
‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited - - Page 83 of 99

‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 10.9 Please provide details on how you ensure that the staff responsible for providing training have the skills I
I required to perform their role. I

Office IT Products

Our staff have a wealth of experience of similar, successful implementations. We will
hand pick employees with the right skills and experience based on similar
implementations and where possible experience of working on the Post Office Account.
Working in partnership with the POL Team and with technical experts, we ensure that our
staff are accredited and trained on the latest peripherals to the standards set and agreed
by the manufacturers. We will use and review documentation provided by suppliers to
ensure that it is relevant and clear, and will use this to provide clear and consistent
training to their staff, both hands on and via supporting documentation for ongoing
training and support. Staff will be conversant in the best ways to train and transfer
product knowledge and will have been through a rigorous selection process to ensure
that they are able to impart their skills in an appropriate and timely manner.

Branch IT Products

Our facilitators, be they Product Engineers or subject experts in a field, will undertake a
process of selection based on training experience and subject expertise. We will ensure
rigorous testing to ensure that our staff have the range of experience and expertise to
provide training on Branch IT products to agreed standards. This will be monitored via
observation, feedback and, where appropriate, by ensuring that any 3rd party
accreditations have been achieved and are maintained. Standards, accreditations and
supporting documentation will be shared with PO staff to ensure that they can maintain
and run their own internal training to agreed levels.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 84 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

11. SECURITY MANAGEMENT

; :
I 11.1 Please explain how you will comply with POLs Information Security Minimum Standard as set out in the I
I Framework Agreement.

The Fujitsu security team will agree with PO Limited the security policies, standards and
regulations which will need to be complied with as part of the service. Regular technical
and procedural audits will then take place to ensure ongoing compliance of the
infrastructure and services being managed on behalf of PO Limited by Fujitsu and to
identify any areas of non-conformance. These activities will be managed by the Chief
Security Officer and undertaken by the Security Auditor and Security Technicians.

In order to ensure that Fujitsu provides a service in accordance with the agreed PO
Limited security policies and standards, the Fujitsu Operational Security team will either
adopt existing operating security standards or develop new ones as required. These
standards will be discussed and agreed with nominated PO Limited security personnel
and utilised by Fujitsu Service Towers Units in the provision of service to PO Limited.
These activities will be managed by the Chief Security Officer and undertaken by the
Security Administrator with support being provided by the Security Technicians.

We are regularly audited for compliance.

I 11.2 Please explain how you will provide Payment Card Industry (PC) compliant Products and services

Fujitsu will implement, if relevant Products and Services are procured, a control
framework that includes technical and operational PCI controls for the assets identified as
within the PCI DSS estate or connected to the estate. This framework would cover the
building and maintenance of secure networks, protecting the Card Holder Data,
maintaining a vulnerability management program, implementing strong access controls,
regularly monitoring and testing the network and maintaining an information Security
Policy.

To achieve this each service tower and function or third party would follow the framework
with agreed Service Requirements, Defined Project Requirements, Service Delivery
Goals and for each agreed KPIs and metrics to measure and jointly review with Post
Office Limited. Changes to the service due to incidents, requirement changes, project
fixes or business as usual changes would be subject to an agreed joint change
management and incident management process.

Resources and assets used in the delivery of the service physical, technical and people
would be subject to appropriate vetting for their roles only. Access, Authentication and
logging of these assets would occur with jointly defined and identified errors and
thresholds to raise incidents against Confidentiality, integrity and availability. Internal
audits in conjunction with business as usual reporting would identify areas for
improvements with remediation plans and service improvement plans put in place.

The recent pin pad procurement required Fujitsu to source and supply PCI compliant
products.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 85 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 11.3 Please explain how you will ensure that Security Products and Services comply with POL Security

I Requirements including all relevant legislation, industry regulation, required standards and industry best

I practice.
Fujitsu will ensure that Security Products and Services comply with POL Security
Requirements through review and sharing of information with POL. Fujitsu already
engages in regular meetings with Post Office Limited, Fujitsu legal team, and
membership of appropriate professional organisations and industry bodies to advise on
their road maps and forthcoming changes. Fujitsu supports and where applicable reviews
Manufacturers roadmaps and advises Post Office Limited of any appropriate changes
that affect their service(s).

As part of the current Contractual requirements Fujitsu ensures that IT Health Checks
together with technical and procedural audits take place to indicate that these are in
place. Based on the findings both parties will agree a strategy with regard to the
appropriate changes with Post Office Limited, and cost and impacts as part of Business
As Usual Service.

Fujitsu has already achieved certified compliance with 1SO027001 and will ensure
continued compliance through the audit programme.

I 11.4 Please explain how you will provide mechanisms that monitor and report compliance with POL Security I
I Requirements including all relevant legislation, industry regulation, required standards and industry best
I practice

As part of the current obligations, Fujitsu has introduced toolsets to collect, aggregate
and trend the controls implemented to ensure compliance and ensure these have the
correct interfaces to adjust them from technical recording logs and error management
toolsets and Help Desk calls.

To make sure that the regulatory standards and controls are followed, Post Office Limited
and Fujitsu agree risks from these and prioritise and agree clear ownership across Fujitsu
Businesses and Functions, Suppliers and third parties and ensures SLAs and OLAs
include defined risk reduction, Risk Acceptance, Risk Transfer and Risk Avoidance.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 86 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 11.5 Please explain how you will ensure certified compliance with IS027001 and embed conformance to
I 18027005

Fujitsu has already achieved certified compliance with 1SO027001 and will ensure
continued compliance through the audit programme. By gaining ISO/IEC 27001,
Accreditation in 2010, and also complying with ISO/IEC 27005:2008 Fujitsu's Post Office
Account customers benefit from our provision of:

e A formal risk assessment to understand the potential risks to a business, the value
of data, software and hardware assets and therefore the cost implications of poor
security practices

e A balanced approach to technical, process and contractual priorities and obligations
such as firewalls, password management and provision of business continuity

« The opportunity to develop an understanding and awareness of good security
practices

« A structured approach to business continuity and information security management

« Protection against the threats and risks posed by breaches of IT security include
data corruption, system malfunction, service discontinuity, data or Intellectual
Property theft, diversion of funds, compromised privacy, legal infringement and
inability to upgrade.

Virtually all new contracts and contract renewals now require certain assurances of

security, risk and/or business continuity standards. ISO/IEC27001 provides these

assurances in respect of IT infrastructures.

[11.6 Please explain how you wil align your Risk Management process with POL’s.

Fujitsu follows a systematic approach to information security risk management; this
identifies the needs of both Post Office Limited and the Fujitsu account with regard to
information security requirements and creates an effective information security
management system (ISMS). This approach was agreed by both parties and in particular
should be aligned with overall enterprise risk management. Security efforts address risks
in an effective and timely manner where and when they are needed. Information security
risk management is an integral part of all information security management activities and
is applied both to the implementation and the ongoing operation of an ISMS.

Information security risk management is a continual process. The process establishes the
external and internal context, assesses the risks and treats the risks using a risk
treatment plan (RTP) to implement the recommendations and decisions. Risk
management analyses what can happen and what the possible consequences can be,
before deciding what should be done and when, to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.
POL and Fujitsu regularly have joint meetings to discuss risk at corporate and project
level and project stages.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 87 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 11.7 Please explain how you will ensure that where you have access to POL systems, processes or data,
I you will comply and monitor and report compliance with POL Security Policies.

Fujitsu both complies and monitors systems in accordance with Post Office Limited
policies together with Regulatory Standards and Methodologies; this is consistent with
ISO/EC27001:2005.

This is achieved through:

e Executive commitment and support for information security;

« A framework of controls within which the Services will be developed, implemented
and delivered by POA in all areas of its business;

e Identifying and addressing the information security awareness and education
requirements for all POA Staff and Suppliers;

* Monitoring for compliance with POA Information Security Policy and other
contractual requirements, through audits and monitoring of the correct operation of
security controls

* Defining the requirements for business continuity management as related to
information security;

e Defining the compliance, audit and management arrangements over information
security and the action that may be taken should this policy not be followed; and

« Allocating information security responsibilities

* Implementing a Joint Document Management system - SharePoint
Healthcheck and Audit compliance against controls for Documentation statuses provide
evidence that the control is in place, and the strength of the implementation, and
Compliance and Risk reports are provided to Post Office Limited on a regular monthly
basis.

11.8 Please explain how you will ensure that your staff including any and all sub-contractors will be trained in I
compliance with all Security Requirements including all relevant legislation, industry regulation, required
standards and industry best practice ; how this will be reviewed and refreshed annually and how this will be
monitored and reported.

Fujitsu's Post Office Account and sub-contractors training function is mandated and
managed in the following processes.

Training — Fujitsu is engaged on an ongoing staff training programme to communicate its
compliance with all relevant security industry standards, relevant legislative regulations
and Best Practices throughout. There is mandated training for all account employees that
addresses all Security Training needs prior to employment on the account.

The Security Manager is responsible for implementation of the Training process for:
1. Development and publication of Security related guidelines

2. Development of training programmes to reflect the requirements of all Security
legislation currently in force

3. Regularly reviewing compliance with good management practices involving
Stakeholders within both the account and Fujitsu corporate.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 88 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

4. Atleast Annual refresh of the Post Office Account Staff training requirements are
performed to make sure that obligations are met with regard to Knowledge and skill
sets

5. All training requirements are monitored by Line Management and senior executive
level together with HR functions where this is recorded to identify skill gaps and
resource needs.

6. Representing Fujitsu Services to the Office of the Information Commissioner and
appropriate professional organisations.

Compliance at all levels of the organisation is mandatory.

Audit - A key factor in the implementation of Fujitsu compliance programme is compliance
auditing. We have an internal audit framework that has a fairly detailed but also layered
set of questions depending on the kind of audit and the specific business unit.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 89 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[11.9 Please explain how you will ensure that staff working in a Post Office environment wil be vetted in
I accordance with POL Policy as set out in the Framework Agreement and the sensitivity of the role that the
I staff will perform for POL and how compliance with this requirement will be assured to POL.

All applications for employment shall be screened in order to assess reliability. Applicants’
identities and references are to be checked as stated in the Fujitsu Policy Security
Checking in HR Shared Services Processes (Ref: HRS1). Equivalent checks will be
applied to all subcontractor staff and third party Engineers, as appropriate, and where
applicable follows the Post Office Limited vetting procedures.

Requirements for further pre-employment checks for Post Office Account Staff are
outlined below. It is the responsibility of the hiring manager to ensure that employees
have the appropriate level of security for their role.

« Additional security checks, in accordance with Post Office Limited vetting
procedures, must be performed for all POA engineer staff that requires access to
Post Office locations in order to undertake development, support or maintenance
activities. Satisfactory Credit Reference Bureau checks will be required for all Post
Office Account Staff who have access to financial information contained within Post
Office systems.

* Criminal Record Checks will be carried out on Post Office Account Staff. This will be
done as part of a UK Government specified Baseline Standard check.

« Higher level UK Security Clearance may be required for individuals who have
access to POL information classified as Strictly Confidential. Advice should be
sought from the Chief Information Security Officer who will confirm the requirement
with POL on a case by case basis.

« All new vetting cases will be reported to Post Office Limited via the monthly
Information Security Management Forum (ISMF) to provide assurances that Vetting
procedures have been followed.

When an existing Fujitsu employee transfers to work on the Post Office Account the
hiring manager must ensure the employee has either satisfied the checks above or that
the checks are performed if the employee has not already been fully checked.

I 11.10 Please explain how you will provide SC-cleared staff to install and maintain Products that are identified I
I by POL as needing SC cleared staff, e.g. POLs’ Biometric Equipment.

Fujitsu is a Tier 1 supplier of services and expertise to UK Government and other
agencies with security vetting requirements. We have a large number of SC cleared
personnel and are well acquainted with clearance processes and constraints. We have a
Vetting Section (VS) within our Group Security function that acts as a channel between
Fujitsu and the vetting authorities of Government departments to obtain security
clearances for Fujitsu employees and contractors who are to work on classified projects
and contracts.

Our Vetting Section confirms an individual's identity by scrutiny, authenticity, checking of
approved personal documents and by obtaining references from employers and
associates to assess suitability for security clearance. The information is then passed to
the appropriate Vetting Authority for further investigation and subsequently a clearance or
refusal. VS hold the records of all employees and contractors who have been through the
clearance process

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 90 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

[11.11 Please explain how you will ensure that any Supplier staff installing and maintaining equipment I
I identified as requiring SC clearance (e.g. Biometric Equipment) will have written proof of their SC Clearance
I at all times. I

As is described in our response to question 11.10, Fujitsu is a supplier of services to UK
Government and other agencies with security vetting requirements. We have a large
number of SC cleared personnel and are well acquainted with clearance processes and
constraints. We have a Vetting Section (VS) within our Group Security function that acts
as a channel between Fujitsu and the vetting authorities of Government departments. VS
hold the records of all employees and contractors who have been through the clearance
process.

Should Fujitsu have responsibility for installing and maintaining equipment that requires
SC clearance we will ensure that the operational procedures are in place to comply with
this requirement.

Fujitsu Engineering Services already supports numerous UK Government Departments
including H.M. Treasury, Cabinet Office and The Ministry of Defence so consequently has
engineers at a range of Government Security Clearance levels pertinent to the work that
they perform.

11.12 Please explain how you will ensure that POL or its appointed third party are fully supported in
conducting audits for any activities conducted by you or your sub-contractors.

Fujitsu supports, where applicable, the Post Office Limited obligations with regard to their
third parties conducting agreed planned and scoped audits. An agreed framework will
need to be implemented. All third-parties, providing services to POA as part of the
Horizon Online Service are subject to monitoring and audit review to ensure compliance
with the contractual requirements and obligations.

All second and third parties including areas of Fujitsu which are not directly part of the
Post Office Account must have documented terms of reference including monitoring and
rights of audit which can be measured and reported on.

In addition Fujitsu shall apply all reasonable endeavours to ensure that all Sub-
contractors for HORIZON ONLINE service allow all system security functionality including
good practice as exemplified by ISO/IEC 27001 to be audited in accordance with the
provisions of the Contractual agreements and schedules.

Evidence of the adequacy of suppliers’ security procedures must be sought where
externally supplied goods or services are used to process critical and/or sensitive
information.

[711.13 Please explain how you will ensure that any failure to comply with any requirements will be remediated
I at Suppliers cost to POL timescales and satisfaction I
Fujitsu will work with POL to ensure that the proposed Framework Agreement and the
associated Call Off Contract(s) will provide an unambiguous and clear definition of the
specific Security Management requirements that are to be delivered. Fujitsu will use
systems organisational structures and methods that it already has in place with its current
POL contract and elsewhere in its organisation to ensure that each call off includes clear
formal acceptance and compliance criteria and that Fujitsu delivers to these criteria ina
timely manner. Where a piece of work is on a fixed price basis Fujitsu would expect to
bear the costs of rework and would use reasonable endeavours to mitigate any delays so

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 91 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

long as the failure is solely due to Fujitsu performance. Where this is not the case Fujitsu
would expect to agree remedial a plan and the financial responsibilities at the earliest
date.

if
I 11.14 Please explain how you will ensure and assure that Supplier and any sub-contractors will maintain
I certified compliance with PCI DSS.

As we described in our response to question 11.2, Fujitsu can implement a control
framework that includes technical and operational PCI controls for the assets identified as
within the PCI DSS estate or connected to the estate. This framework would cover the
building and maintenance of secure networks, protecting the Card Holder Data,
maintaining a vulnerability management programme, implementing strong access
controls, regularly monitoring and testing the network and maintaining an Information
Security Policy.

To achieve this each service tower and function or third party would follow the framework
with agreed Service Requirements, Defined Project Requirements and Service Delivery
Goals. For each a KPls and metrics would be agreed to measure and jointly review with
Post Office Limited. Changes to the service due to incidents, requirement changes,
project fixes or business as usual changes would be subject to an agreed joint change
management and incident management process.

Clearly our ability to maintain, rather than simply obtain initial compliance, would require
Fujitsu to have some form of appropriate ongoing relationship with POL.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 92 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
12.

POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

DATA PROTECTION
12.1 Please provide details on whether you have an appointed individual who in responsible for Data I
Protection? Is this formally documented in the individual's role description? I

Yes. Fujitsu Services Limited employs a Privacy Manager within its Legal Group, who has
a written and published role description. Contact details for the named individual can be
provided on request.

12.2 Please provide details on the relevant information under the Data Protection Act 1998 that is held with
the Information Commissioner: I
i) Legal entity name (Data Controller); I
ii) registration Expiry Date; and I
ii) address of Legal entity (please attach a copy of any certificates)

Fujitsu Services Limited has a current Notification in the Information Commissioner's
Register of Data Controllers. Its registration number is 26251262.

Legal entity name: Data Controller: FUJITSU SERVICES LIMITED
Registration expiry date : 3 February 2013

Address of legal entity :

22 BAKER STREET

LONDON

W1U 3BW

“Page 93 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 12.3 Please provide details on whether you ever been investigated by the ICO for lack of compliance with
I the DPA, subject to Enforcement action or an Undertaking from the Information Commissioner?

I Please Provide

I) number of investigations

Ii) details of any Enforcement Action

I il) details of the Undertaking"

In providing details in response to any questions about past and present disputes, Fujitsu
Services Limited is constrained by issues of confidentiality, materiality and by the number
and complexity of issues addressed in its many contracts.

Fujitsu Services owes obligations of confidentiality to its customers and suppliers and, in
the absence of any authorised public disclosure, is unable to supply details.

I 12.4 Please provide details on whether you have a Data Protection Policy in place readily accessible to staff I
I wned by other org:

Fujitsu has a Data Protection Master Policy, attached, which applies throughout Fujitsu. A
copy of this Policy is attached. Concerning customer information, it states that
“information from our customers must be used only in accordance with the terms and
conditions defined and specified in each contract with them, including those terms and
conditions which specify intended use, management and duration of confidentiality of
such information”.

There is also a Fujitsu Data Protection Code, the objective of which is to provide
adequate and consistent safeguards for the handling of personal data by Fujitsu.

A Legal Compliance Master Policy lists in outline the legal obligations of employees in
relation to a number of areas of law, including data protection.

Fujitsu Services Limited aims to follow internationally accepted good practice in the area
of Information Security, and complies with ISO17799, the international Standard for
Information Security Management.

Our policy on Monitoring / Investigation of IT and Communications complies with the
following control in ISO/IEC27001:

e Monitoring System Use 10.10.2

¢ Collection of evidence 13.2.3.
All Fujitsu Master Policies are accessible to all staff via the company’s intranet site.

12.5 Please provide details on whether you provide training to members of staff on handling personal
information, which is compulsory for ail staff with access to personal information and refreshed regularly.

Yes, compulsory training on handling personal information is required for all staff. There
is an online e-learning module called Data Protection Awareness, which lasts about 30
minutes and covers awareness of the Data Protection Act. It describes the purpose and
application of each of the 8 Data Protection Principles on how those dealing with data
may treat personal information, and about the rights of an individual to control over his or
her personal information and the manner in which it is used. It also covers legal
obligations of Fujitsu as a data controller, legal penalties in cases of non-compliance with
the Act, and offshoring of personal data outside the European Economic Area.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 94 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 12.6 Please provide details on what checks you have in place to ensure the reliability of staff who have
I access to personal information?

The Group Securities team of Fujitsu Services Limited is responsible for all Fujitsu
Services UK Pre-Employment Screening (PES). This screening is normally done for all
new permanent employees, and would include checks on whether the person has the
right to work in the UK.

Further detail is also provide in our response to 11.9

———_—
I 12.7 Please provide details on what provisions are in place to ensure the reliability of any sub-contractors

I used? Do contracts stipulate a similar level of compliance required? Do you carry out regular audits of sub-
I processors to ensure their compliance with data handling requirements?

Using Dunn & Bradstreet’s Portfolio Manager, Fujitsu’s Supply Base, where financial
stability is concerned, is monitored on a monthly basis. This can result in Alerts being
issued by D&B when they consider a supplier is either like to fail financially and go into
administration or are highlighted as part of the statistical analysis D&B carry out on
Fujitsu’s supply base to determine ‘likely failures’ often as far out as 5 months from the
projected financial failure is likely to occur.

The Fujitsu Supplier Assurance Programme will be used to record basic information from
all its suppliers (new and legacy) involving Social Responsibility. The information obtained
will be used to form the basis of a new supplier review and site visit schedule. The
information can also be used to provide an internal trail for any audits Fujitsu’s end
customers may carry out on them.

Fujitsu operates a zero tolerance policy where bribery and corruption is concerned and
expects its Legacy Third Party Vendors to follow its Code of Ethics in all of its dealings
with Fujitsu. Legacy Third Parties are directed to a Fujitsu Website where copies of the
Global Business Group Business Standards and Master Policies can be found.

For all New Third Party requests, Fujitsu has implemented a robust process which
includes; Integrity Due Diligence, involving Dunn & Bradstreet’s databases, for both
Financial Risk and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) checks, as well as requiring the
prospective third party to complete and sign a Disclosure Letter for exposure to ‘Supply
Chain’ Risk. Once a prospective Third Party has been successful in meeting the needs
and requirements of the process, a Certificate of Compliance is issued. Depending upon
the level of findings, an on-site audit of the prospective third party may be required to
validate their policies concerning anti-bribery and corruption.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 95 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

I 12.8 Please provide details on whether you have a Data Protection incident/Breach Management policy and
I process? And how you would ensure any breaches are reported to POL immediately? I

Fujitsu Services Limited is registered under the Data Protection Act 1998 with the registration
number Z6251262. Compliance with the DPA is an integral part of corporate responsibility within
Fujitsu. Awareness of the Act is a contractual requirement imposed by many customers and is also
regarded by Fujitsu as an essential part of the way we do business.

Fujitsu has a Data Protection Master Policy which applies throughout Fujitsu. This Master Policy is
owned by the Fujitsu UK & Ireland Director, Commercial, Legal & Compliance and managed on his
behalf by the Privacy Manager. There is also a Fujitsu Data Protection Code, the objective of
which is to provide adequate and consistent safeguards for the handling of personal data by
Fujitsu.

A Legal Compliance Master Policy lists in outline the legal obligations of employees in relation to a
number of areas of law, including data protection.

Data Protection within Fujitsu is managed in the following process:

«Training — Fujitsu is engaged in an ongoing staff training programme to communicate its
privacy goals throughout the organisation. There is broad general training for all employees
which addresses the issues raised by the eight data protection principles. There is also
customer focused training which will depend on the type of business in which the customer is
engaged and the provisions and requirements set out in the data protection section of the
contract. All training is mandatory for those staff working on such accounts and is managed
by the Fujitsu Services Privacy Manager;

e Policies — Fujitsu's clearly stated policy is to comply with all laws and regulations relating to
the protection of personal data in all countries in which it transacts business and to maintain
a high standard of compliance in all its worldwide operations. The policy has been adopted in
order to provide consistent treatment of personal information throughout the Group. The
Privacy Manager is responsible for implementation of the Policy and for:

o Development and publication of privacy related guidelines;

o Development of training programmes to reflect the requirements of all privacy
legislation currently in force;
Reviewing compliance with good management practices;
Representing Fujitsu Services to the Office of the Information Commissioner and
appropriate professional organisations.

Fujitsu also follows such regulatory standards Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act (RIPA).From
a RIPA perspective, we follow a formal process where the requesting authority makes an initial
request in writing to the Head of Group Security, who is also the Fujitsu Security List X Controller.
This request will be acknowledged and logged and reasonable assistance will be provided where
possible. Fujitsu also has a seat on the MSPIE Forum [Managed Service Provider Information
Exchange] where topics such as RIPA and other privacy acts are debated.

Compliance at all levels of the organisation is mandatory. Our policy on Monitoring / Investigation
of IT and Communications complies with the following control in ISO/IEC27001:

* Monitoring System Use 10.10.2
* Collection of evidence 13.2.3

It is a requirement of the Fujitsu Data Protection Code that employees working with personal data
must be aware that breaches of data protection laws can be legally punishable, and can lead to
claims for compensation or damages. Employees who are found responsible for the breach will be
dealt with according to applicable provisions of law and company policy.

Should an incident occur then Fujitsu and POL already have procedures and processes in place for
communication and ongoing management of such events.

‘© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 96 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
"© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited

POL00397418
POL00397418

Fe)
FUJITSU

12.9 Please provide details on whether any personal information is to be transferred outside of the UK? If
so,what is the country of destination?

Personal information will not be transferred outside the UK.

12.10 Please provide details on how any particular laws in place, in the country of destination, are assessed I
to see whether they protect personal information or add additional risk to personal information? I

Not applicable.

12.11 Please provide details on where personal information is to be transferred outside the UK, what I
adalitional precautions are used to protect the information in the country of destination and whilst in transit? _I

Personal information will not be transferred outside the UK.

12.12 Please provide details on whether the recipient organisation is a company incorporated in the United
States and if so, registered with Safe Harbor? I

The contracting body is not incorporated in the US and therefore is not eligible for Safe
Harbor status. However, where Fujitsu does offshore any personal data outside the EU,
in accordance with current data protection requirements under the 8th Principle of the
Data Protection Act, we adopt the terms of the Controller to Processor Model Contract as
approved by the EU Commission.

“Page 97 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

13. HEALTH & SAFETY

I 13.1 Please explain how you will comply with POL Health and Safety Policies as set out in the Framework Agreement, when
I visiting a POL location.

As part of the induction training for any newly accredited engineers (both internal and
third party), clear instructions on how they are required to behave in branch will be
provided and the individuals have this explained to them as well as being given the
information as part of their training documentation.

In addition, as part of the training a day is assigned for Health and Safety training and this
covers off all areas of Health and Safety including PPE and Manual Handling advice.

These instructions cover everything from what is required in order to get access to a

branch, how they are to ensure they remain supervised at all times, and what to do in the
event that something untoward occurs — for example setting off a panic alarm by mistake
(they are scattered all over the back of a counter) or what to do in a robbery situation etc.

On arrival at site the engineer must always show the Postmaster his or her security pass
to gain access to the branch to carry out the required works. Upon arrival, the PM can
contact the Horizon Service Desk to validate the engineer before allowing access to the
branch. Our integrated call logging system enables an agent at the desk to see which
engineer has been assigned to which call, and by cross referencing the ID number and
name on the engineers pass, can validate it against the name and unique identification
number we hold for that engineer on our system.

Because engineers are accompanied whilst on site, they are also under instruction to
follow the guidance of the Postmaster in the event of an incident occurring. All shops/post
offices have an H&S procedure that may be specific to an individual location.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 98 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 13.2 Please explain how you will provide details of the mechanisms you will use to ensure the safety of your staff and POL
I staff, and where applicable POL customers, when conducting any activities for POL.

When an engineer attends a branch, he or she will always carry out a visual inspection of
the item they are due to replace/repair to ensure that they are not putting themselves or
anybody else at risk before they begin any work.

Engineers are provided with the correct tools to do the job and a full training manual that
describes the approach that they should follow when working on any piece of equipment
in branch.

Some basic principles apply, and are followed by the engineers when on site; these
include making sure that the base unit is powered down and unplugged before they start
connecting and disconnecting cables at the back of the unit.

Engineers are also provided with anti static straps should they have any requirement to
work on open base units which may give an opportunity for a shock, and they have
received instructions on when and how to use them.

Before a piece of equipment is returned to the user it is tested by the engineer to prove it
works.

Cable ties are provided to engineers, and as part of the exchange/repair they are
instructed to make sure that the cables are left in a suitable condition and do not create a
trip hazard to the user.

Engineers are also encouraged to report back via the Horizon Service Desk if they see
anything on site which they believe may be an H&S risk, and this is then addressed
between the appropriate people within Post Office Limited and Fujitsu as necessary.

Our engineers are not electricians, and therefore we do not get involved in any work
outside our remit as hardware engineers. In the event that a branch had to be closed due
to flooding for example, we would not send an engineer to site until the branch has been
able to produce an electrical safety certificate to confirm that the branch is safe to attend.
Details of these processes can be found in the ‘Enforced Closure Process’ which details
the agreed processes that must be followed in the event of an enforced branch closure.

Only the plug sockets installed for the Horizon equipment which run on an isolated line to
the offices other electrical sockets are used for connecting our own Horizon equipment,
and Postmasters are advised not to use the Horizon power sockets for non Horizon
equipment.

Whilst rare, the occasional use of a ladder is required to reach things such as the HUB
box within a large branch (Cambridge, for example); if we are required to attend a call for
this fault at a branch that has a requirement for a ladder, then two engineers are
assigned to the call.

In addition, Fujitsu undertakes as part of the contractual arrangement with Post Office
Limited, full Portable Appliance Testing (PAT) at every branch in the UK (11,000) and on
all 30,000 counters on a regular basis; the last nationwide check was carried out between
August 2011 and April 2012.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 99 of 99
‘Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
POL00397418
POL00397418

@ FUJITSU

I 13.3 Please explain how you will undertake an assessment of Health and Safety Risk and produce a Risk analysis, when
I visiting a Post Office location.

Formal risk analyses are not produced when visiting a Post Office as we conduct
between 3,000 and 4,000 visits to Post Offices per month. New branches which open are
required to follow specific requirements in terms of kit layout to ensure they are compliant
with the latest ergonomic requirements, and these are all captured and logged in a
document we share with Post Office Limited call IM/REQ/005 — this document will show
exactly how a branch should be laid out when it is being opened, including height and
position of equipment and layout of the actual physical counter to reduce the risk of injury
or RSI to the users. Engineers are advised not to put themselves or anybody in the office
at risk from the actions they take, so before commencing work they would undertake a
visual assessment of the environment and situation.

I 13.4 Please describe what Health and Safety-related documentation will you provide to POL, following completion of your

I activities in POL

Upon completion of the work on site, we will test that the equipment is working before
handing it back over to the PM to use to serve customers. Upon request we are able to
provide documentation that shows our processes and procedures for dealing with
different issues that arise from time to time, and some of those will have a Health and
Safety link.

Our documentation and Service descriptions are reviewed by both parties. We have our
own security team who will pick up any issues that are flagged to them that relate to
potential security or health and safety breaches. These may have been identified by
Postmasters or by engineers whilst on site.

All parts exchanged from a branch should have a completed PRF (Product Return Form)
and this ensures that any product returned to repair has a description of the fault
contained within it; this is especially important if the part removed from site failed because
of a power surge, for example, or has glass/water damage from a flood or robbery
situation. In addition, the box would also be clearly marked when an item is being
returned as faulty following potential H&S damage/impact.

© Copyright 2012 Fujitsu Services Limited Page 100 of 99
Commercial in Confidence 28 May 2012
