POL00137323
POL00137323

Sent:

To: Hugh Fleminatont..
Lyonsf.
William:
Subject: FW: Second Sight
FYI

I asked the question of FJ, if either had been referenced in any of the cases, regarding these two issues ~ the answer is
no.

So I have asked the question — what was the issue that was raised in the castleton case so that we have the
background.

L

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ.

GRO

lesley j. sewellG

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Davidson James:
Sent: 01 July 2013 09:11
To: Lesley J Sewell

Cc: Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Second Sight

Lesley,
These have not been tested in any cases we have been party too so most likely that means that not at all.
Regards,

James Davidson
Delivery Executive
Post Office

Fujitsu
Lovelace Road, Bracknell, RG12 8SN
Mob:
Email:
Web: htto/uk fujitsu.com

POL00137323
POL00137323

Fujitsu is proud to partner with Shelter, the housing and homeless charity

Reshaping ICT, Reshaping Business in partnership with FT.com

wv Please consider the environment - do you really need to print this email?

To: Davidson James
Cc: Simon Baker
Subject: Second Sight

James

This is probably a long shot; the two incidents which SS are reviewing, Receipts and Payments and the recent
Suspense issue, do you know if either have been raised in court — similar to the case Gareth mentioned on Friday.

A response on Monday would be appreciated.
Many Thanks

Lesley J Sewell
Chief Information Officer

148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
Direct::
Mobi

lesley.j.sewell@

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named
recipient, you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have
received this in error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views
or opinions expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

Je a HIS SSDI IIIS IIS IIS IIS III IO II IIIS III IIS II III.

Unless otherwise stated, this email has been sent from Fujitsu Services Limited, from Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, or
from Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, together "Fujitsu".
POL00137323
POL00137323

This email is only for the use of its intended recipient. Its contents are subject to a duty of confidence and may
be privileged. Fujitsu does not guarantee that this email has not been intercepted and amended or that it is
virus-free.

Fujitsu Services Limited, registered in England No 96056, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

Fujitsu (FTS) Limited, registered in England No 03808613, registered office 22 Baker Street, London W1U
3BW.

PFU Imaging Solutions Europe Limited, registered in England No 1578652, registered office Hayes Park
Central, Hayes End Road, Hayes, Middlesex, UB4 8FE.

Fujitsu Telecommunications Europe Limited, registered in England No 2548187, registered office Solihull
Parkway, Birmingham Business Park, Birmingham, B37 7YU.
