POL00448054
POL00448054

Main Post Office Limited branches
(Post Office Limited Cash)

Operations Manual

In Commercial Confidence

REVIEWED 17.09.2020
3A_3832923 20
MM1 CLEARED 12.11.1217
POL00448054

POL00448054
Table of Contents
1 PUIPOSE ......sssscssssnsesseerecesccsseenseeeenneeeseeeeeeseeeseeseeeneeeeaan nessun seceseesseeseeeeenseeanes 5
2 Roles and ReSPONSIDIIitieS...........:sseeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesseesseeeeeesseeeseeeeeeeseesssenenenene® 5
3 Features of a Mains Model Branch ........cccccseceeceesssseeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeeeeeees 5
31 Background..
3.2 Main Operating: Model Features: s cscs « ssuwess cosieces s aapians + ceinie ss usiooss ansias 20x 6
3.3 Customer Service Standards
3.4 What to do when things go wrong (Complaints) .......:sssssssesseseeseeeeeseee 10
3.5 Customer enquiries/Opening Hours
3.6 Financial Services and Travel insurance - enquiries and complaints ....... 11
37 Post Office Ltd Home Phone and Broadband - enquiries and complaints. 11
3.8 — Performance Standards........csseccseessrecsseesssessseesssesssseeesseessseeeseee 11
4 Information and advertising (posters and leaflets) ..........cceesseeeeseeeeeeneereeeeeeeeen 13
4.1 DiS pleay, ECU SEN.  aoscciets es cats os seticass so stseaien sa ciesiaisas cies as nsislass ssialas nslancen s 13
4.2 Display Material and Display Instructions. ........cccceeeseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeneereeaee 13
4.3 Essential Information posters.. 13
4.4 Reordering Leaflets, POStErs CG. covesscscerssssoseusecssvonesssssonssscovenveossseeveas 14
4.5 Keeping leaflets up to date
5 Registration; Of ASSISTANES «1s vescenisesnweess onewes ss seerns iseevnessi sweees ss sevens isennees iianeeee ts 14
6 STUPAUMUTAG weiss ssientcn su stnpcn a npisege vs inane oe wneni a maine va splanno oa aennie 44 SO se sunienes «asa so 14
6.1 Initial Training from Post Office Ltd .......cccecesecessseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeseeeeesaee 14
6.2 Training — classroom, on-site ANd ONGOING SUPPOFt.......cceseeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeee 15.
6.3 Post Office Ltd Training by the Postmaster .........cccccseceesseeeeseeeeeeneereeaee 17
7 Daily operation of a Main Post Office Branch ........ccsseessseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaaae 17
A, Prior to Opening the Branch ........ccccssssssseceecesssssseeeesseeesseeeeeeseessseeeeeees 17
7.2 Branch Unable to Open for BUSINESS ........:ccceeessseeeeeeeeesseeeeeeseessneeeeees 18
7.3 Closing the Branch at the end of the day..
8 SCAlES SHid WEIGHTS ....ccuneersrsennssscencrsecsnnserrrvecaseccsenntecesvosersiseendunsenasnecnsienesaae 18
8.1 Checking and Testing of Automatic Scales. ......ssssceseseesesseseeseeseeseneesees 19

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.122
POL00448054

POL00448054
8.2 Fault reporting and assistance. ........cccssccsessseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeueeeeeeneeneee 19
8.3 Further information on scales can be found on Horizon Online Help and
Branch Hub.
aa ss aauwue a samnmni as cauwes aa aeewnas sseounaR a awaaes cameN ss souEuERaTmReRs 1a sSuNNR RaawanaSDCoNETES AS 19
9 Service AISTUPLIONS ........scccccccccersesseesssensessseesceecossceseeeeeenseensesseeesceesesseenseeees 19

9.2 Contingency planning.

9.3 Disruption of Post Office Ltd Services. ......cccccccseeeeeeeseeeeseeeeseeeeesnerenaee 19

9.4 Customer Information.

5 Radio and Press PUDIICity..........cccesssssssseessssssecseeeesesssssseeeecesseesseeenssees 20
9.6 Local Publicity/Information Services. .......ccsceesssseeeeesseesteeeeeeseetsaeeeeees 20
9.7 Role of the Postmaster and its Staff. .......ccccsesssseeeeessssstteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 20
9.8 SEGUPIEY’ PROCECUIES «esis ss axsias 55 custnes 2s gusinins s pausiows ss cunines 15 apslaes 5 auses saunas 11 20
99 Security Standards ss covess ss owns ss seowes ssaseaas sssewwesssonnans si eowuns ssaveusesseneees ss 21
10 SEALIONELY, cncse+scnstisincesinnses ss vents svennssenesinns +s vega ceceestesssopinststtepnns vseesinness vaneaeee 21
11 Value and Non Value Stock....c.cccssccccsseeessecesseeesseeesseesseeessesenseeeeseeeseeeeen 22
Tied MEthiOd OF CENVEM ys. ccneasttanennessanenes es ceennen tanenne ss css (heewane béarenises xaneeee 1 22

11.2 Accepting a cash or value stock delivery ..

11.3 CHECKING A GEIVELY + cewoes ts eseceess qeenes ss iaenes ssasweee ss qrevesisemenes ssanenessienvees ss 22

11.4 Title and risk in cash and stock ..

11.5 Recording value stock Or CASH ON HOFIZON.......cccecceeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 22
11.6 LEAREUS  scccmsssssasswessneesnnsssnsnneessnsestiscesnnsteecvseseonneeaiiiesnessaeevne es uneeeaii 22
11.7 Fulfilment Of Orders ......sscsssseesssseeesseeesteeesseeesseeeessseseneeeseseeernaeeenaes 23
12 Accounting, balancing and cash ManageMeNt ........cccceeeeeeeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 23
12.1 ACCOUNTING ........:ssseeseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseneaneaeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeeesaaeeeeeeneeeeeeeeeees 23
122 BALANCING site ss centres ss coween ss anvcne ss enwnes siemens ss oswees aa qmeve ai emenn as exis ss antrees oi 23

12.3 Security and control of cash and stock

12.4 Cash NOIdINGS .......cccccccccecesssssseeeeeeeessseeeeeeseeessaeeeeseeceesesseeeeeeeeseaaes 24

13 Accounting for branch discrepancies and transaction corrections .
13.1 Accounting Discrepancies ........cccccceeeessseeeeeeeeessseeeeeeeeeeeesssseeeesseeeeeaee 24

13.2 Payment for Transactions’ scsresessviseossssurerssosvevasassucnsassvovssraarussasrevacsens 24

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.123
POL00448054

POL00448054
13.3 Recording, provision of information, accounting and settling............00 25
13.4 Storage And filING.........cccceeeeeceeeeeesseeeseeeeeeeseeeseeeeeeeseesssaeenenseeeeeeeeeeees 25
14 MAI « siccnen « snes ss cern 6 civnoee 4 seein 46 seen 95 nite Eniivnle BS ain nso #« sitcniod Wa Helens €wacen 3H defies BH 25
14.1 Storage and Collection .......ccccccsecessssessseeeeeeseeseeeeeeeseeessseeeeenseeeeeeeeeeees 25

14.2 Mail Segregation.

14.3 The Postmaster’s respOnslDuMty < scctces : : cexew ssccmiage ss anceees cesses seasiene ss annem ve 27

14.4 Information/reporting requirements

15 Provision of the official Branch telephone line ......sssscsessssesesseseseseessseseseesseseee 28

16 Data Protection ....

17 Freedom of Information .......:ccssseccseessseessreessseeessseessseessseeesseeesseeesseeeeeeee 30
18 Equality Act 2010 (EA) ReqUuireMents .........ccccceeeessseeeeeeeeesaeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeeeeeeeee 30
19 Contact with Clients........sscccssesssscerssteerssseressecsesserssseeesseetesseeeessetesneetenseeees 31
19.2 Enquiries from potential CleNts « cnsiussss cosines ssansinne ss qusiazs sansiansssonsucess cases s+ 32
20 PMPEMECH el PROP STEY « «sates ss secsstes a vseesinise xaietinien ss ncmaias saisiesisss scleicces dndasiceiss scsinielas sa seincesss 32
20.1 Licensed Materials ......ssscccsssccesescestsccesssscasesesssessessesesessesenssasenessaes 32

20.2 Advertising or Promoting the Basic Business..
20.3 Using the Post Office Ltd 100. ......ccccccseeeeeeeeeeessseeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeseeneaaee 33

20.4 Post Office Ltd - Branding & Trademarks .

20.5 Intellectual Property Rights Acknowledgement .........ccccccseeeseeeeeesseeeeeaee 34
20.6 Samples of Materials .........c:cccscccccscceeceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeesseeseeeeeeaaee 34
2OSF  EMGQUINIES acca se circa stem: sememce esterase vtemenle ceemer eotaemenat domme seunmas secon ne 34
21 Health and Safety ......cccccccccccsseeesseessssseeeseeeeseeeeeeeeeesssaeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaee 34
22 PostmasterPaystation™ and Application, Identity and Enrolment Equipment..... 35
23 MAUWOPK, « :asewess seenessesswswess swans sscenessssavewwsaseneeusssaeenussssmucess ssnesuss sareutas semersess 35
24 APPONGICOS ssces = «cess ss ccees + ansae v3 sepinms ss smeme 2s gexeise as sooiewe senses 1s cee saaewtase see 35

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.124
POL00448054

POL00448054

1 Purpose
The purpose of this Manual is:

. to provide Postmasters with information and support that they will require for
operating a Main Post Office Branch; and

. to explain Post Office Ltd’s requirements relating to a variety of matters,
including the customer experience, accounting, security, ordering products,
provision of cash, safeguarding mail, training, disability issues, registration of
Assistants, health and safety and information security including data protection
issues.

This Manual is the first point of reference on most topics but where necessary it will direct
you to other manuals/sources of information.

Unless expressly specified, any use of the word "Manual" is intended to refer to this
document only, and not the wider definition of "Manual" in the Main Post Office Agreement.
Unless otherwise specified, capitalised terms used in this Manual (e.g. Postmaster,
Customer, Assistants etc.) are defined in the Main Post Office Agreement (which will be
referred to in this Manual as “the Agreement”).

The Operating Instructions contained within this Manual may be revised and updated by
Post Office Ltd from time to time in accordance with the Agreement.

2 Roles and Responsibilities

Postmasters will be required to use this Manual in conjunction with other relevant manuals
referred to in the Agreement to train Assistants who will be involved in operating the
Branch.

The Postmaster shall provide Post Office Ltd with a suitable email address for any day to
day communications from Post Office Ltd in relation to the Branch (and shall inform Post
Office Ltd promptly of any change in such contact email address from time to time). The
Postmaster will ensure that such email account is accessed by himself or a Manager on
each day on which the Branch is open.

The Postmaster shall register with “Grapevine” (Post Office Ltd’s dedicated intelligence
service) as soon as is reasonably practicable. This may be done by calling 0345 603 4004
or accessing the Grapevine website (www.grapevine.co.uk). Registering with Grapevine
will enable Post Office Ltd to contact the Postmaster in relation to any security issues
affecting the Branch or the Network.

In relation to the Retail Business the Postmaster will;
¢ within 3 months after the end of each of the Postmaster’s financial years,
supply Post Office Ltd with a copy of the latest available audited accounts of
the Branch and the Basic Business or such other financial records as may be
agreed between Post Office Ltd and the Postmaster.

3 Features of a Mains Model Branch

3.1 Background

The Main Model operates within a high quality retail offer, with premises that are compliant
with the Equality Act.

17.09.2020
3A_I 2
MM1 CLEARED 12.11.125
POL00448054

POL00448054

The standard Main branch format has a focus on service from an open-plan environment.
A dedicated, open-plan Post Office counter will be available, also incorporating a fortress
position for high value transactions. This is normally situated towards the rear of the retail
premises.

The dedicated counter will serve the full range of Post Office products available in the
branch.

In addition, the majority of services will also be available from a combi counter located
alongside the retail counter, which would be open the same hours as the retail business.

This provides additional capacity during the core operating hours, as well as adding
extended hours & allows the Postmaster to make efficient use of staffing by using retail
assistants during extended hours.

3.2 Main Operating Model Features

The following are a list of principles and features which apply to all Main Model Post Office
Ltd branches.

* shall be located within a vibrant retail offer (such as a convenience store or
branded symbol group or a large independent convenience retailer);

. will be located in a mix of urban and rural locations;

« will have a mixture fortress and open plan with a Local Combi alongside the
retail counter; and

. will offer extended opening hours which will match the retail store opening
hours.

3.3 Customer Service Standards

Giving Customers a positive experience every time they visit your Branch is vital to the
long term success of your business and that of Post Office Ltd. Satisfied Customers are
more likely to buy more, shop more often and recommend you to others, so the benefits
really speak for themselves. To understand exactly what makes a good customer
experience and to help you deliver it we’ve spent some time talking to Customers about
what’s most important to them and we've used this information to develop our Branch
Standards. These are contained in the table below.

The standard This means that
Speed of I Every Customer — shall I The Postmaster shall:
service receive attention to their

. review customer arrival patterns
and plan to meet expected peaks
and troughs of demand for
counter services.

requirements within five
minutes of the time they
seek service. Research
shows that satisfaction
declines significantly for I « deploy queuing systems which
Customers waiting more are designed to support
than five minutes. achievement of the standard,
which may include a single queue
system, bespoke service points,
queue hosting or other process

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.126
POL00448054

POL00448054

taking account of available in-
office facilities;

put in place flexible staffing
arrangements as may be
required to cope with the
variations in the pattern and
volume of Customer arrivals and
types of business;

ensure that all staff are fully up
to date on current procedures,
services and products; and

ensure that all staff are well
prepared for the day ahead, have
sufficient stocks, forms etc. and

are motivated to serve
Customers quickly and
efficiently.

Greeting

Every Customer receives a
warm and friendly verbal
greeting before the
beginning of the transaction

The person serving greets each
Customer in a polite and friendly
way before the beginning of the
transaction e.g. “hello”, “how can
I help you?” and if immediate
service cannot be provided,
demonstrates that they value the
Customer’s time by positively
acknowledging the Customer’s
wait e.g. “thank you for waiting”.

Eye Contact

Every Customer is Ie
acknowledged with eye
contact at the beginning of
the transaction

The person serving shall look at
the Customer, and try and make
eye contact and a smile before
starting to serve each Customer.

Attention
given

Every Customer is given full I «
attention throughout the
transaction, with no side

conversations with
colleagues. Research
shows that talking to

colleagues whilst serving is
a big driver of Customer
dissatisfaction.

The person serving displays a
professional attitude and pays
full attention to each Customer
that they serve from the time
they leave the head of the
queue;

the person serving gives full
attention and priority to the
Customer being served. No
Customer shall be kept waiting at
the counter while the person
serving completes the previous
transaction;

if the person serving is
interrupted by a colleague during
a transaction they shall
acknowledge the inconvenience
to the Customer and make an
apology;

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.127
POL00448054

POL00448054

the person serving does not
leave the counter position during
the transaction unless it is
necessary to do so to complete
the transaction; and

the person serving provides an
explanation to the Customer if
there is a need for them to leave
their counter position, e.g. to
obtain a form or to consult a
colleague about the transaction.

Meeting
Customer
needs

Every Customer is given an
accurate and expert service
that fully meets their need

The person serving shall:

ask relevant qualifying questions
to understand the Customer's
need;

use active listening skills and
demonstrate they understand
the Customer's need e.g. by
paraphrasing the conversation or
confirming the Customer request
back to them;

tell the Customer about relevant
options to meet their need and,
where there are several options
available, explains the different
service levels and prices;

ensure that the Customer gets
the right product or service to
meet their need, or a suitable
product if there are several
options available;

transact the product correctly
through the Horizon system,
making sure that the Customer
understands the price of each
element before completing the
transaction of the product;

give the Customer any relevant
post sale or transaction
information; and

ensure that the Customer’s need
has been fully satisfied and
enquires if the Customer needs
anything else, e.g. “Is there
anything else I can help you with
today?”

Additional
Help and Sales

Once the Customer's initial
need has been met, the
person serving shall help
them identify any additional
relevant_needs and make

The person serving shall:

offer products and services which
may better meet the Customer's
needs than the service they have

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.128
POL00448054

POL00448054

them aware of appropriate
products and __ services
which may meet those

needs

This will help to maximise

your sales

asked for and explain why this
would be a more suitable
product/ service and explain any
price differences;

not give advice and
recommendations for financial
services or telecoms products;

ask the Customer relevant
questions during the transaction
to understand any further,
associated needs we may be able
to help them satisfy; and

make the Customer aware of
complementary products and
services and their prices.

Closing
comment

Every Customer is give!

friendly closing comment at
the end of the transaction

na

The person. serving politely
acknowledges the Customer
when the transaction has been
completed e.g. “goodbye” and
“thanks”.

Name badge

The name of everyone

serving Customers is visi

to Customers at all times

ible

The person serving displays their
name badge on their person at all
times.

Appearance

Everyone has a= smart

appearance

Everyone serving our Customers shall:

.

wear current, approved career
wear that is neat, tidy, and clean;

only wear Post Office Ltd
approved badges, or ones from
other reputable organisations
(e.g. British Legion or Round
Table).

Branch
environment

Branch is clean and tidy

Frontage and windows shall be
kept clean, well presented and in
good condition;

point of sale shall be tidy, well
presented and suitably placed;

no homemade point of sale
material is permitted;

all areas of the Branch shall be
regularly cleaned and
presentable;

counter screens and tops shall be
well presented, clean and free of
clutter;

aisles shall be clear with no
obstructions or litter.

MML CLEARED

12.11.

129
POL00448054

POL00448054

3.4 What to do when things go wrong (Complaints)

We know that despite all of your hard work, sometimes things do go wrong and Customers
may complain. Even though a complaint may not have been caused by, or be about, a
Branch, the Customer will naturally visit the Branch to complain because it’s easy and
accessible.

When that happens, it’s really important to handle it professionally and make sure the
Customer tells Post Office Ltd so we can fix it and make sure the same problem doesn’t
happen for other Customers. This also helps us make sure that complaints are handled
fairly and consistently, meet the requirements of regulators such as the Financial Conduct
Authority (FCA) and Ofcom and are captured centrally to allow us to improve things for
everyone

It’s important that you pass Customers on to the right team immediately so we can help
them quickly. For many Products and Services we have dedicated customer helpdesks
who are experts and best placed to help Customers. You can find all the information you
need in the "Here to Help” leaflet, the product brochure or the Operations Manuals for
the relevant Product or Service.

Please remember that whilst you may not be responsible for a Customer’s complaint and
shall not try to resolve it locally, how you respond to an unhappy Customer does reflect
on your Branch. Whilst it may not feel like it at the time a complaint is a great opportunity
for you to give outstanding service. Customers do understand that things sometimes go
wrong and, if their issue is dealt with in the right way, will often be more satisfied and
loyal than they were before.

By managing these situations professionally and sensitively you can start the process of
repairing the Customer's view of the Post Office network. So what should you do?

. listen to what the Customer has to say. They may be angry and need to let off
steam so it’s really important that you stay calm to diffuse the situation if this
should occur;

. apologise that the Customer is unhappy. Even if it’s not your fault you should
apologise that something has gone wrong;

. explain and assure. Calmly explain what action the Customer needs to take
and make sure they know what will happen next. Assure the Customer that
Post Office Ltd takes complaints seriously and our dedicated teams will respond
promptly; and

. thank the Customer for taking the time to tell us about their issue — it really
helps us to understand what we need to do to make our business better for
everyone.

3.5 Customer enquiries/Opening Hours

For any general Customer enquiries that cannot be dealt with by the Branch, Customers
shall be given the Post Office website address so that they can complete the necessary
form and submit when completed. If the query is relating to a transaction and can’t be
resolved by using the Horizon Online Help, then the Branch shall contact the Branch
Support Centre (BSC) for further advice, and quote that they are operating a Main Post
Office Ltd Branch.

The Postmaster shall provide an excellent service to its Customers at all times. If
something goes wrong and a Customer wishes to complain, the Postmaster shall, as a

RE!

3A

17.09.2020

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.1210
POL00448054

POL00448054

representative of the Post Office Ltd brand, deal with the complaint in a positive, confident
and professional manner. If the Customer has a complaint, the Postmaster may give the
Customer the Post Office External website address found at Appendix A.

Customers expect Post Office Ltd services to be accessible at a time convenient to them
and have a right to expect Post Office Ltd branches to be open in accordance with their
advertised opening hours. The Dedicated Post Office Counter Positions shall be available
during the minimum hours specified in the Agreement subject to extension in accordance
with the Agreement for special events and seasonal fluctuations demand e.g. Christmas
period and the day after Bank Holidays. Please note that these counters do not need to be
permanently manned but Assistants shall be available to meet customer requirements.

Outside core hours, if the store is open, then Post Office services shall be made available
from the Combined Retail Serving Position, where one has been provided. If no Combined
Retail Serving Position has been provided, then Post Office services are required to be
available from the Dedicated Serving Positions.

An notice setting out the opening hours of the Branch shall be kept permanently on display
at the Branch. There are two notices available communicating Post Office service opening
times:

. a notice to communicate opening hours for Post Office services available from
the Dedicated Post Office Counter Positions; and

. a notice to communicate opening hours for Post Office services available from
the Combined Retail Counter Position (where this service is available).

3.6 Financial Services and Travel insurance - enquiries and complaints

For all complaints relating specifically to a Post Office Ltd Financial Services product or
Travel Insurance, the Customer shall be referred to the appropriate financial services
contact centre as identified within the “Here to Help” leaflet and for all enquiries, the
Customer shall be referred to the product brochure..

Alternatively, if the Customer wishes to send their complaint in writing to the Post Office
Ltd Financial Services Customer Care Team, you shall provide the Customer with the
address details. Neither you nor your Assistants shall seek to become involved in resolving
the complaint for the Customer. All complaints will be handled in line with the regulations
set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)

3.7 Post Office Ltd Home Phone and Broadband - enquiries and complaints

For enquiries and complaints relating to Post Office Ltd Home Phone and Broadband the
Customer shall be referred to the Post Office Ltd Home Phone and Broadband Customer
Services call centre as identified in the Post Office Ltd HomePhone and Broadband
leaflet. Customers can register their complaint either by telephone or in writing. Neither
you nor your Assistants shall become involved in resolving the complaint for the Customer.
All complaints are handled in accordance with Ofcom guidelines as detailed in the Post
Office Ltd Home Phone and Broadband Code of Practice.

3.8 Performance Standards
Performance Standards Support available to Postmasters

Below are the different types and levels of support available to Postmasters:

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1211
3A

POL00448054

POL00448054

Onsite support from an Area Manager is available for branches providing sales
training to Postmasters and their Assistants.

Telephone sales support arranged by an Area Manager is available for selected
branches providing sales training to Postmasters and their Assistants. This
support would now be arranged by the Area Manager for the branch where
required.

Specific product sales support is available for selected branches providing sales
training to Postmasters and their Assistants.

Sales and marketing support in the form of the provision of point of sale
materials, publications etc.

Branch Focus publications communicating sales information and details on new
and changes to existing products and services.

“One Website” is a dedicated website for Postmasters to keep up to date with
online news, publications and access to product and sales training material.

“Horizon Online Help” is a webpage accessible from Horizon System, which
contains online support in relation to completing transactions.

“Branch Hub” is an interactive tool for you and/or your staff. It is a digital
platform which contains support and information relating to tasks such as stock
ordering troubleshooting issues. Additional useful tools will be added in due
course to help make Branch Hub a one-stop shop for postmasters.

“Branch Support Centre” can help the postmaster if they experience an
operational issue and they need any support but don’t know how to get it. The
Branch Support Centre can be contacted on !

We publish operational information each week in Branch Focus, such as product
updates. This is published on Horizon.

We send pop-up memo view communications that appear on the Horizon
terminal for urgent operational information.

Regional Facebook groups are available for you to connect with us and with
other postmasters.

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1212
POL00448054

POL00448054

4 Information and advertising (posters and leaflets)

Branches are required to meet high standards of presentation by displaying posters and
other specified informational material as directed and by maintaining displays in the
manner detailed below.

4.1 Display Equipment.
Branches may be equipped with one or more of the following point of sale display systems:

. POD panels which include leaflet dispensers for the display of advertising and
informational material.

. Al poster panels for displaying specific product promotional material in
exterior facing windows and on an internal wall. These are the only areas where
information, notices or promotional material may be placed within the Branch
for Customer sight in accordance with the display instructions. Counter screens
shall be kept clear at all times other than displays as defined by the display
standards document.

* A frames (where used) is used to display current promotional material
provided by Post Office Ltd.

. Forms Dispensers (where fitted). Branches shall ensure that the correct
forms are contained in forms dispensers and that sufficient stocks are available
for Customer use at all times. Post Office Ltd will issue a list of forms to be
displayed.

4.2 Display Material and Display Instructions.

The material to be displayed is restricted to that authorised by Post Office Ltd as detailed
in the display instructions, which are distributed to Branches on a regular basis. Posters
and leaflets, to update displays, will be despatched to Branches prior to the display date.
The displays shall be updated by the date specified in the display instructions (unless
instructed otherwise). Branches shall ensure that there is a plentiful supply of leaflets
available on the Customers’ side of the counter area at all times. Reference shall be made
to the operations manual relevant to the Product, Service, transaction or process for
procedures for non-receipt of items.

Nothing other than the items listed in the latest display instructions shall be on display in
the Branch within the eyesight of Customers. Only Post Office Ltd’s officially produced
posters and leaflets can be displayed in Customer areas and under no circumstances shall
locally produced items be displayed. No sticking tape, blu tac, etc shall be used to affix
posters to counter serving screens, on walls or window areas.

In the unlikely event of a Post Office Point of Sale delivery failure the Branch shall contact
Branch Support Centre quoting non receipt and obtain a reference number, which shall be
retained until the display materials are received. The display space shall be left blank until
the correct display material is received unless you are informed otherwise. We may
occasionally need to supplement the display instructions through branch focus or a horizon
memo view.

4.3 Essential Information posters

When it’s necessary to display Essential Information posters supplied by Post Office Ltd,
for example to advise Customers about a change in the normal opening hours of the
Branch, these shall be displayed as directed by Post Office Ltd.

RE!

3A

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1213
POL00448054

POL00448054

4.4 Reordering Leaflets, Posters etc.

Sufficient stocks of all leaflets etc. shall be held to cover a minimum of four week’s
requirements. Refer to the operations manual and display instructions relevant to the
Product, Service, transaction or process for procedures for ordering supplies of display
materials.

The display instructions will contain full instructions on treatment of obsolete items.
4.5 Keeping leaflets up to date

All leaflets, forms and posters shall be kept up to date, old leaflets, forms and posters held
within the Branch shall be destroyed or recycled as explained in the display instructions
ensuring that only the latest information is available to Customers.

5 Registration of Assistants

The Agreement requires that the Postmaster shall not allow anyone to have any
involvement with the Branch or with the Products and Services unless they have first been
registered as an Assistant by Post Office Ltd. The procedure to be followed by the
Postmaster in seeking registration of Assistants (including a Manager) is set out in
Appendix E of this Manual. When any Assistant ceases involvement with the Branch, the
Postmaster shall immediately notify Post Office Ltd and shall terminate their access to Post
Office Ltd information or information systems or the Horizon system (or any replacement
system). The Postmaster is responsible for assessing and managing the Assistant's
capability to deliver the accurate, professional and great level of customer service
expected by Customers.

The Postmaster shall:

* ensure that all Assistants understand that they are employees of the
Postmaster, not Post Office Ltd;

* ensure that all Assistants comply with Post Office Ltd’s reasonable instructions
regarding standards of appearance, behaviour and skill; and

. ensure that all Managers and Assistants wear identification badges, as supplied
by Post Office Ltd, when working in the Branch. Such identification badges shall
be obtainable from Post Office Ltd or its nominated supplier at Post Office Ltd’s
cost;

6 = Training
Introduction

The training of Postmasters is extremely important to Post Office Ltd. Post Office Ltd will
provide a comprehensive training package to Postmasters.

6.1 Initial Training from Post Office Ltd

Post Office Ltd will provide initial training to the Postmaster and/or Manager(s). This
training will cover all aspects of running and maintaining a Branch, including operational
training of basic transactions and accounting processes on Horizon Online.

On request by the Postmaster, Post Office Ltd may also offer initial training to Postmaster’s
Assistants. It is the Postmaster’s responsibility to ensure its staff are trained and maintain
the required level of knowledge. The Postmaster will be responsible for paying any salary,

RE!

3A

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1214
POL00448054
POL00448054

expenses, accommodation etc. incurred by staff attending any training courses or outside
hours training events which are provided by Post Office Ltd.

The Postmaster will be required to attend further training as directed by Post Office Ltd
from time to time. Postmasters of Mains Post Office branches will usually be required to
attend no more than 4 days of training per calendar year but this may vary from year to
year.

6.2 Training - classroom, on-site and ongoing support
A trainer from the Post Office Operational Training team will complete initial training of the

Postmaster. This will include transactional training for key products and services, FCA &
Mails compliance & equipment used on a daily basis.

Type of training / I Explanation Length of

support training /
availability of
support

Online eLearning I Online learning assigned to the learner to cover the I 8-10 hours

fundamentals basic Post Office products and services available in

training which is I their branch. Each module includes an assessment

relevant to all quiz to test the learner’s knowledge. These modules

branches. cover: Mails; Travel; Banking services and

Assessment automated payments; Security procedures;

quizzes to test Compliance (Information Security and Data

learners protection, Anti Money Laundering and Counter

knowledge. Terrorist Financing Awareness, Mails Compliance,

Mails Prohibited and Restricted).

Online eLearning I Online learning assigned to the learner to cover I 6-8 hours
fundamentals products and services that are only available in
which is relevant I Mains, some SPSOs and Directly Managed
to Mains SPSOs__I Branches. Each module includes an assessment

branches with quiz to test the learner’s knowledge. These
additional modules cover: Government services; Broadband
products, and and Phone; Travel Services; Financial Services;
Directly Managed I Compliance (Financial Services, Broadband and
Branches. Phone; Insurances).

Assessment

quizzes to test

learner’s

knowledge.

Classroom Classroom Training to practice transactions using I 2 days
Training which is I Horizon, build capability on completing transactions
relevant to all and processes, build confidence in talking to
branches. This customers about products and services and to
training is receive face-to-face feedback and support from a

supported by a Post Office Trainer.
Counter Guide
and a Learner
journal. Day 1: Introduction to Horizon Online; Inland Mail;
International Mail; MoneyGram; Banking services;
Automated payments; End of day activities.

MML CLEARED 12.11.1215
POL00448054

POL00448054

Day 2: Day 1 recap; Balancing; Travel Money; Cash
management; Further practice of transactions; End
of day activities; Balancing a stock unit.
Classroom Day 3: International Parcelforce Worldwide; Branch I 1 day
Training Security; Information security and data protection,
additional day DVLA, Introducing Post Office Products (Financial
for Mains and Services, Broadband and Phone, Travel services);
SPSO branches Stock Unit balance; Passport check and send.
with additional
products and
DMBs. Supported
by a Counter
Guide and a
Learner journal.
In-branch Post Office Trainer will set up the branch ready for I 1 day
training. Set-up opening. This day includes adding the Postmaster
day for new and all assistants to the Horizon system, creating
branches. stock units, preparing the stamp books, booking in
cash and stock, setting up the branch with the new
forms and leaflets.
In-branch Post Office Trainer will provide support for the I 6 days
Training all Postmaster and assistants with all transactions and
branches. during quiet periods will role play transactions to
gain experience and confidence. Trainer will cover
all transactions with each learner.
Follow up Post Office Trainer will provide support with carrying I 1 day
balance out the weekly balance and going through the
processes with the Postmaster reinforcing the
learning from the classroom and the previous
balance.
Early days A Business Support Manager is assigned to the I 6 months
support branch for up to 6 months to embed, consolidate
and reinforce the training and complete the On-
boarding journey.

The Postmaster shall provide ongoing training & development of Managers and Assistants
to ensure they supply a high level of customer service, accuracy & product knowledge to
Customers. The Postmaster shall use weekly updates and training aids provided by Post
Office Ltd to update Assistants and Managers of any operational changes and shall set and
monitor high standards of customer service. The Postmaster shall ensure that all Assistants
are briefed on security procedures and processes for handling and securing cash, stock
and Customer information, and to ensure a consistently high quality Customer experience.

The Postmaster shall ensure that all Assistants and Managers use individual Horizon user
ID’s and passwords set up in the correct format as laid down in the operating instructions
provided by Post Office Ltd. The Postmaster shall further ensure that the Manager and/or
each of the Assistants do not swap or share their individual Horizon user ID’s or passwords
in any circumstance.

MML CLEARED 12.11.1216
POL00448054

POL00448054

The Postmaster shall ensure that he/she and all members of their team that work in the
Branch complete the annual regulatory training and testing as specified by the Post Office
annual regulatory training programme.

All training records shall be documented by the Postmaster and records kept. The records
shall be available for Post Office Ltd to inspect when requested.

6.3 Post Office Ltd Training by the Postmaster
On - going Training Requirements.

The Postmaster is required to arrange and deliver training for their Assistants for new
products and services, changes to current products, services and accounting processes
and sales conversational training. The Postmaster shall ensure all training reference books
and guides are kept up-to-date.

The Postmaster shall also ensure that, as appropriate, each Manager or Assistant who has
not attended training from Post Office Ltd acquires the same job skills as the Post Office
Ltd trained staff.

Training for Regulated Products

The Postmaster is responsible for ensuring that Managers and Assistants receive all
training which is necessary in order to be able to provide the Post Office Ltd Products and
Services to the required standard.

Where the Postmaster has obligations to third parties in relation to certain Post Office Ltd
Products and Services (including, but not Ltd to, financial transactions (such as bureau de
change, sale of insurance and communications products, and provision of mail services)),
the Postmaster undertakes to use its best endeavours to ensure that Managers and
Assistants will not cause the Postmaster to be in breach of such obligations.

Post Office Ltd may require from time to time that the Postmaster conducts specific training
(whether through written/distance learning or via presentations) in relation to certain Post
Office Ltd Products and Services or regulatory requirements (such as, but not Ltd to,
money laundering) for its staff. Repeated failure or refusal by the Postmaster to arrange
for such training to be properly applied when requested to do so by the Post Office Ltd will
be deemed to be a material breach of the Agreement.

7 Daily operation of a Main Post Office Branch

Introduction

This section is intended to give guidance on the tasks and preparation needed before a
Branch can be opened for daily business and closing the Branch at the close of business.

7.1 Prior to opening the Branch

Security Procedures

Assistants working at the Branch shall be fully trained in the confidential security drills
applicable to the Branch, as set out in the Security Operations Manual. All staff shall also

be made aware of advice given in this Manual and be familiar with how assistance from
the police can be summoned, if necessary.

Staffing

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1217
POL00448054
POL00448054

As a broad guide, counter staff will normally be needed about 15 minutes before the
Dedicated Post Office Counter Position(s) is/are due to open to attend to the above
mentioned preparatory work, but variations will be required if:

. there is extra work expected;

. counter training is scheduled; and

. security reasons dictate.

Where possible, if the Branch is large enough it is recommended that key tasks be
separated and allocated to individual staff working in the Branch.

7.2 Branch Unable to Open for Business

If for any reason a Branch is unable to open for business at its advertised time then the
Postmaster shall notify the Branch Support Centre immediately.

When opening is delayed for a short period of time during the day, Post Office Ltd shall be
consulted and approval given, and a special notice displayed informing the Customers of:

. the reason for the delay in opening, or temporary closure;

. what time the service will be resumed;

. which is the nearest Post Office Ltd branch for alternative service; and

. give an apology for the inconvenience caused.
7.3 Closing the Branch at the end of the day
Dispatch of Mails and Transaction Documents
Prior to the last letter mail collection all transaction vouchers, summaries and other
documents shall be dispatched as necessary. When the last letters collection is actually
made all items of mail shall be cleared from the Branch. Any mail items transacted after
the last collection shall be secured as per the Mails Integrity guidelines.
Preparation for Next Day’s Business
Postmasters are free to carry out cleaning or suitable work in readiness for the next day’s
business when this is convenient after the Dedicated Post Office Counter Position has

closed.

Security procedures and staffing arrangements need to be varied as appropriate if
balancing and accounting procedures are followed at close of business.

8 Scales and weights
Introduction.

Weights and scales sited at branches for use in the conduct of the Branch come within the
jurisdiction of the Weights and Measures Act and shall be exclusively used for transactions
at the Branch. Equipment shall bear the Weights and Measures authenticating stamp and
is liable to test and inspection at any time during normal working hours by local Trading
Standards Officers, to whom access and assistance shall be given when bona-fide evidence
of identity has been produced.

RE!

3A

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1218
POL00448054

POL00448054

8.1 Checking and Testing of Automatic Scales.

To ensure that scales are accurate as a safeguard for Customers, the Pi
the scales regularly and report all faults immediately to Grapevine on

Records of the tests shall be kept for audit purposes in the form set out in Appendix B and
shall be kept within the Branch. Sets of test weights are provided for the purpose:

8.2 Fault reporting and assistance.

Any faults shall be reported to Grapevine o1

8.3 Further information on scales can be found on Horizon Online Help and
Branch Hub.

9 Service disruptions

When counter services are disrupted by external or internal factors, it is Post Office Ltd’s
policy to do everything possible to maintain the fullest range and availability of services
to Customers. If, however, it is not practical to continue to operate all services then the
Postmaster shall shut down the services in the following order of priority (government
payments being the first to be shut down, and ‘any other services’ being the last to be
shut down):

. Government payments;

. banking services (including corporate business - business deposits/change
giving etc.);

. priority mail services e.g. special delivery & first class post; and
. any other services specifically directed by Post Office Ltd
9.2 Contingency planning.

The key to maintaining services during emergencies is prior contingency planning and
flexible response to the difficulties arising from specific incidents.

9.3 Disruption of Post Office Ltd services.
Should support services operated by Post Office Ltd or other Clients be disrupted for any
reason, every effort will be made to maintain service by alternative means. Services most
likely to be affected are:
. cash funding and stock remittance services;
. mails services including daily and weekly collection of transaction documents;
. stores provisioning; and
. helplines, e.g. Branch Support Centre (BSC).
Provided that stock levels are maintained to authorised levels, Branches shall be able to
continue operations without interruption and emergency corrective action shall not be

required immediately. If necessary, a message will be issued by or on behalf of Post Office
Ltd giving instructions and advice about:

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1219
POL00448054

POL00448054

. funding and cash management;

. clearance of cheques accepted for goods and services;
. despatch of transaction documents etc;

. stock and stores;

. changes to transaction or other procedures;

. suspension of “nominated office of payment” rules to allow payments at
alternative offices; and

. communications.
9.4 Customer Information.

During emergencies, a high priority shall be given to informing Customers about delays to
or suspension of services thereby helping to minimise inconvenience and anxiety.

9.5 Radio and Press Publicity.

Post Office Ltd will co-ordinate information services and arrange for television, radio and
press publicity where this is considered appropriate in national or local emergencies.

9.6 Local Publicity/Information Services.

Marketing will be responsible for and give guidance on notices to be displayed in Branches
to:

. explain and apologise about delays to or suspension of services etc;
. indicate when resumption is expected; and
. advise on alternative service options.

You can contact the display instructions inbox by emailing
display instructions{~~

9.7 Role of the Postmaster and its Staff.

The Postmaster and its staff shall cooperate to maintain services for Customers and Clients
at the Branch and do everything possible to protect the commercial interests of their
business and Post Office Ltd.

Under no circumstances shall the Postmaster or any staff give interviews or discuss
emergency situations with media or consumer group representatives without prior
authority from Post Office, of th referred to the Post Office
press office at pressofficet Lor

9.8 Security procedures

A Postmaster is responsible for maintaining a standard of security sufficient for the safety
of their staff, securing of cash, stock and other Post Office property and documents,
whether held in their care or that of their assistants, both during the day and at night
when the branch has closed.

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1220
POL00448054

POL00448054

Postmasters shall familiarise themselves with the Security Operations Manual as they must
comply with its terms pursuant to this Agreement. Any security procedures required by
Post Office Ltd shall be implemented immediately. Adhering to mandatory security
procedures is key to deterring potential criminal activity. Postmasters and their staff are
advised to consider the best course of action according to individual situations that occur.
A premium shall always be placed on the safety and wellbeing of human life.

All staff working in the Branch shall at all times be alert to crime risks, be briefed on
general security arrangements and on any special considerations which may arise during
each period of the day.

9.9 Security Standards

For any general and operating security procedures please refer to the Security
Operations Manual.

Reporting a robbery or burglary.

All robberies, robberies, threats (attempted and actual), bomb threats and suspect
packages along with any suspicious activity shall be reported to the police on 999 and then
Grapevine oni. i The Postmaster shall obtain and submit the following
information to Post Office Ltd at the earliest opportunity:

. the denominations, total values and serial numbers of the missing or stolen
items, so far as they are known, with serial numbers of any remaining stocks;

. a statement as to whether the date stamp of the Branch has been stolen or, if
not, whether there is reason to believe that it has been used upon the stolen
items;

. a specimen impression of the date stamp and, if it was stolen, particulars of
the type in it when stolen;

. a statement of the circumstances which are thought to show that a theft has
been committed and of the supposed date, time and method of commission. It
shall include, if possible, written reports from the person who last saw the
missing items and the person who first discovered the loss. The former shall
say when the items were last seen, in what place and in what kind of receptacle
(locked or unlocked) they then were. The latter shall state how and when the
loss was discovered and describe exactly the condition of the place and of the
receptacle from which the items were apparently taken; and

. particulars of any cheques including details of the service or stock for which
they were accepted.

10 Stationery

Post Office Ltd will provide a supply of stationery to enable the Postmaster to conduct
transactions at the Branch. It is the responsibility of the Postmaster to re-order sufficient
levels of stock in line with the requirements of the Branch.

The Postmaster shall source pens, pencils, rulers, rubbers, paper clips, staplers, staples,
coin and note bags etc. via any supplier it chooses to use at its own expense.

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1221
POL00448054

POL00448054

11 Value and Non Value Stock

Value and non-value stock shall be ordered in accordance with the process and timescales
set out in the “Ordering Stores and Stock” section on Horizon Online Help. The Branch
code shall be used when ordering all stock.

11.1 Method of delivery

All deliveries of value stock and cash relating to the Branch will be made to the Branch
Premises by secure means by Post Office Ltd or its supplier.

Deliveries and collections of value stock and cash shall be carried out in accordance with
the Post Office Ltd Cash and Secure Stock Remittance Information on Horizon Online Help
and Branch Hub.

Non value stock (namely leaflets, posters, mandatory stationary associated with counter
transactions and refills for self-inking datestamps) will be delivered by standard mail.

11.2 Accepting a cash or value stock delivery

When the Postmaster receives a value stock or cash delivery at the Branch it shall obtain
and sign the delivery receipt(s) for all stock and cash pouches received before returning
them to the delivery officer.

11.3 Checking a delivery

All stock or cash deliveries shall be checked on receipt to ensure the correct amount has
been delivered. Any discrepancies shall be reported using the process, and within the
timescales, notified by Post Office Ltd to the Postmaster.

11.4 Title and risk in cash and stock

The cash and stock will be at the Postmaster’s risk from the time they are delivered to the
Branch Premises, provided that the Postmaster’s liability for loss of, or damage to, the
cash and stock will be determined in accordance with the Agreement.

Title to stock remains with Post Office Ltd or where appropriate the Client until such time
as it is sold to a Customer. Immediately upon receipt of a request to do so by Post Office
Ltd, the Postmaster shall return or destroy such stock as directed by Post Office Ltd.

11.5 Recording value stock or cash on Horizon

The total value of cash delivery shall be scanned into the Horizon system within the Branch
by the Postmaster on the same day as delivery in accordance with the Post Office Ltd Cash
and Secure Stock Remittance Services Manual.

A pouch containing value stock, delivered to the Branch Premises, shall be scanned into
the Horizon system upon receipt and its value manually entered onto the Horizon system
within 24 hours of receipt, as long as it is stored securely from the point of delivery.

11.6 Leaflets

An initial supply of leaflets will be delivered to the Branch. It is the responsibility of the
Postmaster to maintain leaflet stock levels after this, making sure up to date information
on Post Office Ltd Products and Services are available for Customers. Leaflets, forms and
posters required for use in the Branch shall be ordered from National Stock Centre Swindon

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1222
POL00448054

POL00448054

using the process and within the timescales notified by Post Office Ltd to the Postmaster,
and using the Branch code and delivery address.

Please refer to Ordering Stores and Stock information on the Horizon Online Help for full
instructions, including procedures on non-delivery and emergency ordering.

11.7 Fulfilment of orders

Post Office Ltd will fulfil orders, subject to availability. Post Office Ltd may refuse an order
if it considers it to be excessive.

12 Accounting, balancing and cash management

12.1 Accounting
On a daily basis the Postmaster shall carry out the following:

. Complete an accurate cash declaration on Horizon for all the stock units used
every day as close as possible to, but no later than, 7pm. This shall include any
stock units that may have only been used to accept Transaction
Acknowledgements or to transfer cash/stock/currency. If a stock unit is not
used, or if the branch is closed on the next day, the Postmaster shall make
sure the cash declaration is the last transaction on Horizon that day.

. Associate the individual automated payment receipts with the daily automated
payment report for use in the preparation of the Branch Trading Statement.
The Postmaster shall keep the automated payment receipts and daily
automated payment report in a secure place at the Branch.

. Complete and despatch additional daily and weekly documentation in
accordance with procedures stated within the relevant operational manual for
that Product or Service.

. Comply with information relating to Branch Trading set out on Horizon Online
Help and Branch Hub.

. Remit monies due to Post Office Ltd in accordance with the Post Office Ltd Cash
and Secure Stock Remittance Services Manual.

12.2 Balancing

The Postmaster shall complete their Trading Period once a month within their designated
group and also on termination or expiry of the Agreement. Best practice is to balance a
Trading Period on a weekly basis so any discrepancies can be identified and addressed
quickly.

There are twelve Branch Trading Periods in a year, running from April through to March
and they follow a cycle of 5 weeks, 4 weeks, 4 weeks. The dates on which each Postmaster
shall produce a Branch Trading Statement will be notified to the Postmaster by Post Office
Ltd.

If help is needed with a branch discrepancy, please call the Branch Support Centre. The
telephone number can be found at Appendix A.

The Branch Trading Statement shall be filed and kept at the Branch. The Postmaster shall
also comply with the Branch Trading Guidelines on Horizon Online Help and Branch Hub.

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1223
POL00448054

POL00448054

12.3 Security and control of cash and stock

It is essential to take adequate precautions to secure cash and stock from members of the
public and from visitors to the Branch. Safe keys shall never be left in the lock when the
safe is not in use. They shall be hidden in a secure location within the branch. To ensure
accountability for remittances and to control amounts of cash held at the counter a daily
balance of bulk cash shall be made. This balance shall also record any:

. inward or outward cash remittances;

. transfers to or from the counter staff;

. signatures of individuals transferring cash; and

. handovers between the Postmaster and Assistants.

The Postmaster shall check inward remittances and despatch outward remittances. It shall
ensure that bulk cash is retained in the safe with access restricted to the appropriate
Managers.

As stated in the Agreement, the Postmaster is fully liable for all loss of, or damage to, Post
Office Ltd’s cash and stock where such loss or damage occurs as a result of the
Postmaster’s own negligence, carelessness or error, and also for losses of all kinds caused
by his Assistants.

12.4 Cash holdings

It is important for the Branch to have the right amount of cash in the Branch at the right
time. To achieve this, the cash requirements of the Branch are determined from of a record
of cash flow details maintained over a period of time. The Branch is then given a target
for the amount of cash it shall be holding at any one time in order to ensure that excess
cash is not being held unnecessarily. The holding of excess cash not only constitutes a
security risk but also loses Post Office Ltd a considerable amount of interest that could
otherwise be obtained by banking the money. The cash holding targets set for each Branch
are monitored regularly.

13 Accounting for_branch discrepancies and transaction corrections

Introduction

It is the responsibility of the Postmaster to ensure that all accounts are prepared accurately
and on time, even though they may not be personally involved in their preparation. If you
have any queries in relation to a discrepancy or transaction correction, please call the
Branch Support Centre. The telephone number can be found at Appendix A.

13.1 Accounting Discrepancies

Any net accounting gain may be withdrawn by the Postmaster. The Postmaster shall repay
any net accounting gain to Post Office Ltd where required.

The Postmaster is encouraged to contact branch support if they come across any
discrepancy, positive or negative, that is unknown to them.

13.2 Payment for Transactions

The Postmaster is responsible for ensuring that, where appropriate to the Transaction, full
payment is collected from Customers for each Transaction.

RE!

3A

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1224
POL00448054

POL00448054

13.3 Recording, provision of information, accounting and settling
The Postmaster shall:

. record such data and information relating to the Branch as Post Office Ltd may
require;

. at the request of Post Office Ltd, promptly provide either Post Office Ltd or any
third party with such information and data as Post Office Ltd may reasonably
require;

. maintain an accounting system, prepare, sign and maintain financial
statements and accounts, record Transactions and maintain all records;

. provide Post Office Ltd with the information regarding the Basic Business;

. Post Office Ltd (or its nominee) at any time during business hours to inspect and
take copies of all records (including any accounts) relating to the Branch; and

. account for and remit to Post Office Ltd all monies collected from customers in
connection with transactions.

13.4 Storage and filing

All accounting paperwork shall be filed and stored securely at the Branch to enable the
information to be easily located and identified if retrieval is required. Retention timescales
will be stated in the relevant operations manual for each Product or Service.

Any confidential or sensitive data which is to be kept at the Branch shall be stored securely
for the required retention period notified by Post Office Ltd and shall be shredded prior to
disposal or secure destruction using a third party specialist company. Further information
is provided in the mandatory Information Security training that Postmasters shall
complete on an annual basis.

The Postmaster shall maintain Branch Trading Statements in a form approved by Post
Office Ltd and shall keep them for at least six years after the end of the Postmaster’s
financial year to which they relate, together with all underlying or supporting records and
vouchers relating to the Branch.

14 = Mail

14.1 Storage and Collection

The Postmaster is responsible for ensuring mail is held securely on site until the scheduled
collection. On arrival the identity of the collector shall be confirmed and mail handed over
to persons with the appropriate identification.

14.2 Mail Segregation

The segregation of mail is a standard, mandatory part of the acceptance of mail at the
Branch. Failure to comply with this standard will lead to corrective action being required

of Post Office Ltd by Royal Mail. Post Office Ltd may, in turn, require the Postmaster to
undertake corrective action.

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1225
Mails segregation information is below:

POL00448054
POL00448054

1% class parcels
(to be sealed and 1**
class parcel label
attached)

2"4 class parcels
(to be sealed and 2"4
class parcel label
attached)

Letters and Large letters

(to be sealed anda
“Letters and Large
letters” label attached)

1st Class and
international
PARCEL sized items
including Large
Letters over 750g

1st Class small and
medium

International
Standard and
International
Economy

Articles for the Blind

BFPO

Franked/Mailmark
(Meter) -
international/inland
parcels

Freepost Name (no
address and no
postage markings)

Freepost and
Business Reply
(marked as 1)

Home Shopping
Returns ri, R24

International
Business Reply
Service

Online postage
(marked as 1)

17.09.2020
20

2nd Class PARCEL
sized items
including Large
Letters over 750g

2nd Class small and
medium

Franked/Mailmark
(Meter) - inland
parcels

Freepost (with
address but without
postage markings)

Freepost and
Business Reply
(marked as 2)

Home Shopping

Returns rV, r2, R,
MOR, R48

Online postage
(marked as 2)

MML CLEARED 12.11.1226

. LETTER and LARGE
LETTER items up to
750g

. International
Standard and
International
Economy

. Articles for the Blind

. BFPO

. Freepost and
Business Reply

. Home Shopping
Returns -
Letter/Large Letter

. International
Business Reply
Service

. Online Postage

. Royal Mail Signed For

POL00448054

POL00448054

1% class parcels 2"4 class parcels Letters and Large letters
(to be sealed and 1% (to be sealed and 2"¢
class parcel label class parcel label (fo be sealed rae
attached) attached)

letters” label attached)

. Postman’s pouch

Additionally there are a number of mail items that have to be kept separately (see table
below)

Special Delivery™ and other Royal Mail I Use a green bag (if available if not other
priority bags can be used but they shall be tied
with correct zip tie)

Parcelforce Worldwide items Hold separately
Meter mail/ Franked Mail pouches Kept separate
Account Mail formally known as PPI Kept separate

Segregation laminates are supplied- if more are required they can be ordered via Horizon.
Full instructions and updates to Mail segregation standards can be found on Horizon Online
Help.

14.3 The Postmaster’s responsibility

The Postmaster is responsible for ensuring that ‘mail items’ are accepted, processed and
conform to the agreed Post Office and Royal Mail requirements. The Postmaster shall use
the appropriate tools and conversations when accepting all mail items. Failure by the
Postmaster or any of its assistants to follow such a procedure will be deemed to be a
material breach of the Agreement.

14.4 Information/reporting requirements

Post Office Ltd views every incident of damage to, theft or loss of, or interference with,
any item of mail as being very serious in nature. The Postmaster shall therefore report as
soon as possible to Post Office Ltd every such incident in the manner set out below, or as
may otherwise be required by Post Office Ltd.

The Postmaster shall as soon as possible upon becoming aware of its occurrence, report
to Post Office Ltd, via the Branch Support Centre, every incidence of loss or theft of,
damage to or interference with, a Postal Item (“Incident”).

The Postmaster shall also record in respect of each Incident at least the following details:

. the date, time and place;

. the number of (or, where not known, a reasonable estimate of) Postal Items
involved; and

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1227
POL00448054

POL00448054

. as far as reasonably practicable, the staff who may have participated in the
conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation or delivery of the items of mail (letter
or parcels) involved; and any other particulars in relation to it (including the
factual circumstances).

15 Provision of the official Branch telephone line

15.1 Post Office Ltd shall provide suitable telephone facilities at the Branch. These facilities
can be provided by any telecommunications provider of Post Office Ltd's choice and
shall meet the needs of the official business of Post Office Ltd and the relevant
requirements of security (including use of the telephone facilities by Post Office Ltd
for its Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line (ADSL) service). These telephone facilities
are known as the Official Branch Telephone Line.

15.2 The Horizon equipment or any future replacement for the Horizon equipment or any
official Post Office Ltd equipment as Post Office Ltd may from time to time specify
will either:

. be connected to the Master Line Box at the Branch and will utilise the Post
Office Ltd ADSL service that runs over the OBTL ; or

. will utilise the ISDN line connected to the Branch and /or the OBTL.

15.3 Post Office Ltd is under no obligation to provide an OBTL that can be used for any
purposes other than purposes relating to the running of the Branch. If the OBTL is
capable of any private use, the Postmaster shall utilise the OBTL solely for official
Post Office Ltd purposes and shall not utilise it for any private purposes.

15.4 The Postmaster shall not move or relocate the OBTL without Post Office Ltd’s prior
written permission. Any movement of or changes to any of the telephone or other
communications equipment at the Branch that are the result of changes initiated by
the Postmaster, including but not Ltd to refurbishment or re-location of the Branch,
will be the responsibility of the Postmaster. The Postmaster will be responsible for
ordering and paying for the movement or changes from the telecommunication
service provider.

15.5 Post Office Ltd reserves the right to amend and update the requirements of this
section in the future should the operational and security needs of Post Office Ltd
require such a change, provided that such a change is in accordance with the terms
of this Agreement.

15.6 The Postmaster agrees to co-operate with Post Office Ltd in relation to the installation
at the Branch of any other forms of communications equipment or data links to be
used for the purposes of conducting the official business of Post Office Ltd.

15.7 The Postmaster shall provide:
. a direct exchange line; or

. an extension plan installation comprising a portable telephone and two sockets:
one to be installed in the Branch and the other in the Postmaster’s bedroom.
(This type of installation is only required where Post Office Ltd considers it is
desirable, as a security measure, and where the Postmaster resides on the
premises. However, Post Office Ltd will not require this type of system to be
installed at island and small rural offices where Post Office Ltd considers that
the risk of criminal attack is clearly negligible).

MML CLEARED 12.11.1228
POL00448054

POL00448054

15.8 The Postmaster’s requirement to provide the OBTL may be discharged by allowing
the installation by Post Office Ltd at the Branch of a separate telephone line from a
telecommunications provider of Post Office Ltd's choice for use as the OBTL The
Postmaster may retain whatever other private lines and /or telecommunications
facilities he or she wishes, but those facilities shall not be used in relation to the
running of the Branch. Post Office Ltd will pay the provider of the OBTL directly for
the line. The Postmaster will incur no telephone costs for the provision of the OBTL
and therefore has no need to reclaim any such costs from Post Office Ltd.

16 D Pr ‘ion

The Agreement requires the Postmaster to comply with all relevant legislation relating to
data protection and to comply with the obligations set out in this Manual, the Agreement
or otherwise communicated to the Postmaster in writing by Post Office Ltd in accordance
with the Agreement from time to time.

Post Office Ltd may at reasonable intervals request a written description of the technical
and organisational methods employed by the Postmaster or the Postmaster’s sub-
contractors to ensure the safety and security of Personal Data held by the Postmaster.
Within ten working days of such a request the Postmaster shall supply written particulars
of all such measures in sufficient detail so that Post Office Ltd can determine whether or
not Personal Data, has been processed in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018
(DPA) and the requirements of the Agreement.

The Postmaster shall:

. in the case of queries raised by members of the public regarding incorrect or
inaccurate information supplied by Clients, refer such queries back to the
relevant Client and if this does not resolve the issue, the Postmaster shall
contact Post Office Ltd;

. notify Post Office Ltd immediately and in any event within three working days
of receipt of any communication received from a data subject regarding data
protection if the data has been processed under the instruction of Post Office
Ltd;

. in relation to communications regarding data protection , which relate to data
processed under the instruction of Post Office Ltd, notify Post Office Ltd of the
communication and provide such assistance as is necessary to enable Post
Office Ltd to comply with its obligations under the DPA;

* ensure that any paperwork containing Customer details is shredded before
being despatched as part of confidential waste;

* ensure that under no circumstances is any other person given access to any of
Post Office Ltd’s information systems using the Postmaster’s or any Assistant's
ID and password. The Postmaster and each Assistant are personally
responsible for any activity conducted using their ID and password;

. immediately report to Post Office Ltd any incident involving a breach or
potential breach of the security of personal data processed under the
instruction of the Postmaster. For the avoidance of doubt, Post Office Ltd shall
be responsible for conducting any investigation which it deems is necessary in
respect of the information security incident and the Postmaster shall provide
such assistance as Post Office Ltd may reasonably require; and

MML CLEARED 12.11.1229
POL00448054

POL00448054

. comply with its own obligations under the DPA, including registering with the
Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) if required and shall follow the ICO
CCTV Code of Practice.
17 Freedom of Information
Third parties are able to request information from Post Office Ltd under:
. the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act 2000; and/or
. the Environmental Information Regulations 2004;

together with any guidance and/or codes of practice issued by the Information
Commissioner or relevant government department in relation to such laws and regulations.

The Postmaster shall clearly identify any confidential information it passes to Post Office
Ltd as confidential. Requests under FOI will come from Post Office Ltd. If the Postmaster
receives a FOI request relating to the Bi ird party, it shall notify Post Office
Ltd immediately at information. rights¢_

The Postmaster shall provide any information requested by Post Office Ltd under FOI within
the timescales notified by Post Office Ltd at the time of making the request. The timescale
is likely to be a maximum of 5 days.

17.2 The Postmaster acknowledges that Post Office Ltd. is subject to the requirements of
FOI Law and shall assist and co-operate with Post Office Ltd (at the reasonable
expense of the Postmaster and upon the request of Post Office Ltd) to enable Post
Office Ltd to comply with such requirements.

17.3 The Postmaster shall:

. send any request for information under the FOI Law which it receives to Post
Office Ltd within 5 working days of receipt;

. provide Post Office Ltd with a copy of all information in the form required by
Post Office Ltd within 5 working days of a request from Post Office Ltd;

. provide all reasonable assistance as requested by Post Office Ltd to enable Post
Office Ltd to respond to a request for information under the FOI Law within the
time for compliance set out in FOI Law; and

. not respond directly to a request for information under the FOI Law in any
event unless expressly authorised in writing to do so by Post Office Ltd.

17.4 Post Office Ltd shall, in its absolute discretion, be responsible for determining,
whether information is to be disclosed in response to the request for information
under the FOI Law.

18 Equality Act 2010 (EA) Requirements

In order for the Postmaster to monitor its own compliance with the requirements of the
“Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy” and demonstrate compliance to Post Office
Ltd, the Postmaster shall:

. carry out regular self-audits to assess compliance with the EA and the Equality
Policy (at its own cost);

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MM1 CLEARED 12.11.1230
POL00448054
POL00448054

. provide a copy of the latest self-audit report to Post Office Ltd within 14 days
of receiving a request from Post Office Ltd and be prepared to discuss it with
Post Office Ltd if required;

. in any case, if the audit report shows that the requirements of the EA and/or the
Equality Policy are not being met, then the Postmaster shall immediately inform
Post Office Ltd in writing; and shall comply with any instructions issued by Post
Office Ltd as a result, including ceasing to provide certain Products or Services
until compliance with its obligations under the EA and the Equality Policy has
been achieved;

. co-operate fully with any and all monitoring and audit activities undertaken by
or on behalf of Post Office Ltd in order to assess compliance by the Postmaster
with the EA and the Equality Policy;

. if such monitoring or audit activity shows that the requirements of the EA
and/or the Equality Policy are not being met then the Postmaster shall comply
with any instructions issued by Post Office Ltd as a result, including ceasing to
provide certain Products or Services until compliance with its obligations under
the EA and the Equality Policy has been achieved; and

. notify Post Office Ltd in writing immediately if it believes that any of the
Products and Services do not comply, or that there is a significant possibility that
they do not comply, with any of the requirements of the EA or the Equality
Policy or if it identifies any other breach of the EA or the Equality Policy in
respect of the Branch or the Branch Premises or considers it likely that any
such breach will occur; and notify Post Office Ltd in writing as soon as possible
and no later than 3 Working Days following receipt by the Postmaster of any
enquiry, complaint or claim regarding accessibility of the Branch Premises or
the Products or Services or the treatment of a particular Customer or group of
Customers with a protected characteristic listed in section 4 of the EA. For the
avoidance of doubt, this includes any alleged failure of the Postmaster and/or
Post Office Ltd to comply with any requirement of the EA or the Equality Policy
and any complaint regarding the content or adequacy of the Equality Policy.
The Postmaster shall provide such assistance with the response to or defence
of any such enquiry, complaint or claim as may reasonably be required by Post
Office Ltd and Post Office Ltd may take over and defend any legal proceedings
arising from such a claim on behalf of the Postmaster.

19 Contact with Clients

The Postmaster may have direct contact with representatives of Clients about Products
and Services currently provided. Visits may also be received from sales staff or other
representatives of Clients by arrangement. If such visits are made, the Manager and/or
Assistants shall:

° ensure that visitors purporting to be from a Government Department etc. show
valid and in date identity cards and are not allowed access to the secure areas
of the Branch Premises in which the stocks of Products are stored or the official
side of the counter without prior clearance from Post Office Ltd;

. not give information or release documents without instructions from Post
Office Ltd;

. not offer Post Office Ltd facilities for business schemes e.g. local bus ticketing
schemes at the Branch without obtaining prior approval from Post Office Ltd.
Any requests received from Clients or Customers for local facilities, for

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1231
POL00448054

POL00448054

example, to sell charity cards or issue leaflets in the Branch shall be referred
to the Branch Support Centre;

. ensure that other visitors, including Fujitsu engineers, BT engineers, CBRE,
shall show valid credentials prior to access; and

. report any attempts to access the Branch Premises in relation to the Branch
without valid identification to Branch Support Centre.

19.2 Enquiries from potential clients

If requests or enquiries are received about using the Post Office Ltd network for retail or
other services, for example, from a transport company considering methods of selling bus
passes or tickets, you shall explain that Post Office Ltd’s marketing teams will be pleased
to advise and help and that they can be contacted via the Branch Support Centre.

20 Intellectual Property
20.1 Licensed Materials
Licensed Materials include materials made available to the Postmaster by Post Office Ltd
on its Brand Centre website, providing that they are used by the Postmaster strictly in the
format in which they are presented on the website and in accordance with any instructions
given by Post Office Ltd on the website or in the Manual.
The Postmaster shall not use the Trade Marks or Post Office Intellectual Property except:
. as part of the Licensed Materials; and
. where the Postmaster has obtained the specific prior written consent of Post
Office Ltd in respect of the proposed use of the Trade Marks in the operation
of the Branch (including on any website operated by the Postmaster).

20.2 Advertising or Promoting the Basic Business

In advertising or promoting the Basic Business (whether in conjunction with Branch or
separately), the Postmaster shall ensure that:

. the advertising does not appear to be speaking on behalf of Post Office Ltd or
any Client;

. Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property or the Intellectual Property of Clients is not
used without the express prior written consent of Post Office Ltd (to which it
may attach such conditions as it thinks fit);

. the standing of Post Office Ltd in the community, or that of any Client, is not
jeopardised or brought into disrepute;

* references to the Branch are in the form of either Post Office Ltd Branch at (x
host store) or, (x host store) with a Post Office Ltd Branch;

. the name “Post Office” (with or without the ® mark) is never used as part of
another name. This means the Basic Business name shall not incorporate the
name “Post Office” (e.g. you cannot use the name “Post Office Stores”;

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1232
POL00448054

POL00448054

In addition:

. the promoter of any such activity will be the Postmaster. Post Office Ltd will
be in no way liable, financially or otherwise, for the promotion;

. links to discounts on the Products or Services are prohibited;

. all promotions/activities shall be legal, and shall conform to the Advertising
Standards Authority, the British Code of Sales Promotion practice and give
special consideration to the direct marketing rules within Data Protection Act
2018, General Data Protection Regulation 2018 and Privacy and Electronic
Communications (EC Directive) Regulations 2003;

. promotions or advertising by the Postmaster shall not be in breach of any other
provision of the Agreement.

If Post Office Ltd gives permission for the use of any Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property
in any materials advertising or promoting the Basic Business, the Postmaster shall include
such statements or notices as Post Office Ltd may direct.
20.3 Using the Post Office Ltd logo.
The Post Office Ltd logo is a registered trade mark, it is well recognised and the strongest
and most valuable element of Post Office Ltd’s brand identity. Before using the logo, as
well as complying with the Agreement and obtaining any approval as described above, the
Postmaster shall ensure that:

. brand guidelines and constraints are understood;

* the correct version of the logo is being used; and

. the latest artwork and the correct trademark acknowledgement statement are
being used.

Post Office Ltd’s Brand Team are always happy to advise, and can provide details of the
latest Brand Guidelines.

Even more importantly, the Postmaster never allow a third party to use the Post Office Ltd
logo without the prior written consent of Post Office Ltd. This shall be applied for via the
Brand Team.

20.4 Post Office Ltd - Branding & Trademarks

To protect trademark rights, Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property shall only be used in the
forms in which they are registered. They shall not be made part of another name, or
shortened into an acronym.

For Example:

Always use Never use

Post Office Ltd POL

Post Office Ltd, [to refer to a I post office, The Post Office
branch or outlet]

17.09.2020
3A_. 2

MML CLEARED 12.11.1233
POL00448054

POL00448054

Post Office Ltd branch(es) or I post office(s)
outlet(s)

Post Office Ltd network Post Office Network

Post Office Ltd, Romsey branch I Romsey Post Office

20.5 Intellectual Property Rights Acknowledgement

Intellectual Property acknowledgements, trade mark and copyright acknowledgements
shall be used on all materials where appropriate or directed by Post Office Ltd to show that
they are intellectual property rights used by the Postmaster with the permission of Post
Office Ltd. The following statement shall be used on all printed materials bearing the Post
Office Ltd trade mark or logo to acknowledge Post Office Ltd’s trademark right, including
printed Licensed Materials:

“Post Office and the Post Office logo are registered trademarks of Post Office Ltd”
20.6 Samples of Materials

Post Office Ltd may at any time request from the Postmaster samples of any materials
bearing any Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property or which in Post Office Ltd’s view take
advantage of Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property. In the event that the samples do not
in Post Office Ltd’s view comply with this Manual, the Branding Guidelines on Horizon
Online Help and Branch Hub, or any other provision of the Agreement or any other
standards associated with Post Office Ltd Intellectual Property, the Postmaster shall amend
or immediately withdraw the material as reasonably requested by Post Office Ltd.

20.7 Enquiries

Any further queries or requests for approvals regarding the Licensed Materials or any Post
Office Ltd. Intellectual Property shall be referred to Post Office Ltd via the Branch Support
Centre.

21 Health and Safety

Like anyone operating business premises, Postmasters have a legal duty of care to ensure,
as far as is reasonably practicable, the health, safety and welfare of their employees,
customers and members of the public at or outside your premises. They have specific
duties under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 and the Occupiers’ Liability Acts
1957 and 1984, for example making sure premises are safe, including by using external
signage.

We can direct you to the guidance available about your health and safety management
obligations, including guidance published by the Health and Safety Executive at
htt,

-hse.gov.uk,

ww)

. Employers who have five or more employees shall undertake a risk assessment
and you can find a tool for this at

https: //www.hse.gov.uk/retail/index.htm. Examples can be found at

https: //www.hse.gov.uk/risk/casestudies/;

. Area Managers have been provided with accessibility guidelines and can give
advice to Postmasters;

MML CLEARED 12.11.1234
. Area Managers are carrying out accessibility surveys at branches;

. Postmasters shall

POL00448054
POL00448054

regularly inspect their premises, fixtures and fittings

(including external signage) to ensure they comply with applicable legislation
and identify any potential issues that might need maintenance or repair;

. Postmasters shall familiarise themselves with and follow the guidance available
to them such as the Health and Safety Executive guidance referred to above;

and

. If a Postmaster is planning a major refit or refresh, our Branch Design team

can help with advice and can be emailed a’ 7

22 PostmasterPaystation™ and Application, Identity and Enrolment Equipment

The Postmaster will comply with the Instructions to Postmasters for Post Office Ltd
paystation™ Terminals, attached at Appendix H, in respect of the paystation™ terminal(s)
at the Branch Premises and the Instructions to Postmasters for Application, Identity and
Enrolment Equipment, attached at Appendix I, in respect of any Application, Identity and
Enrolment Equipment at the Branch.

23 Mailwork

To the extent that the Postmaster performs Mailwork at the Branch Premises, the
Postmaster shall comply with the information specified in the Mailwork Requirements

Manual.
24 Appendices
Appendix A: Useful telephone numbers
Appendix B: Record of Scales tests
Appendix D: Training records
Appendix E: Assistants
Appendix F: Responsibility for the safeguarding of the mail
Appendix G: Divulgence of Official Information, Correspondence & Interviews
Appendix H Instructions to Postmasters for Post Office Ltd paystation™ Terminals
Appendix I: Instructions to Postmasters for Post Office Ltd
Application, Enrolment and Identity Equipment
Appendix J: Basic Sales Conversations

3A

17.09.2020

MML CLEARED 12.11.1235
Appendix A: Useful telephone numbers

The Branch Support Centre can help if you experience an operational issue
and shall be your first port of call if you need any support. The Branch

Support Centre can be contacted on

i If you need support

with any of the following issues, the best number to call is listed below:

POL00448054
POL00448054

Help On

Team

Numbers

Arranging to resolve a discrepancy

Loss Recovery

ATM issues

Bank of Ireland ATM Helpdesk

Branch balancing

Branch Support Centre

Cash Ordering

Inventory Support Desk

Fit and Proper declarations

Branch Support Centre

IT Issue

IT Service Desk

Missing posters or leaflets

Branch Support Centre stock queries}

Reporting a security incident

Grapevine

Reporting suspicious activity, fraud
and suspicions of money laundering

Grapevine

Safe repairs

Insafe

Security equipment

Post Office Equipment Team

Signage replacement

Futurama (approved
manufacturer)

signage

Smart IDs

Branch Support Centre

Transaction Corrections (TCs)

For explanation of the TC, it’s the}:

Support Centre

Transaction Corrections (TCs)

To dispute a TC, it’s the Disputes Teg

Mains Operations Manual reviewed 14.09.20.docx

OS-#3642108-v1
Appendix B - Record of Scales Tests

Branch name:

POL00448054
POL00448054

Date
tested

scales

Accurate (yes or
no)

Fault reported on

Engineer
visited

Report any faults to Branch Support Centre

Mains Operations Manual reviewed 14.09.20.docx

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054

POL00448054
Appendix D - Training records
Name of I Type of training I Date of I Manager’s signature Employees
Postmaster’s I delivered/cascaded training signature
Employee

Mains Operations Manual reviewed 14.09.20.docx

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054

POL00448054

Appendix E - Assistants
INTRODUCTION

Post Office Ltd shall comply with certain obligations in relation to the Post Office Ltd
business, including those of: Postcomm, Ofcom and Financial Services Authority
regulations, and money laundering and immigration legislation. Some of these obligations
require Post Office Ltd to ensure that Postmasters (and any persons employed or engaged
by Postmasters in relation to the Branch) are made aware of, and know how to comply
with, the terms of such regulations and legislation. These requirements have been set out
in Appendices E, F and G to this Manual. The obligations placed upon the Postmaster are
the minimum necessary to ensure that both Post Office Ltd and the Postmaster are
compliant with the regulations and legislation mentioned above, and are, in the main, what
most Postmasters, as responsible employers, should be doing anyway. The objectives of
these obligations are:

. to ensure that Post Office Ltd complies with the relevant regulations and
legislation; and

. to ensure as far as possible that the Postmaster does so too, and that no
Postmaster suffers from the consequences of failure to so comply. (This is very
important, as those consequences can include criminal prosecution.)

The Postmaster has a duty to ensure that it is aware and that it makes their staff aware,
of the obligations set out in this Manual or otherwise as notified by Post Office Ltd to the
Postmaster.

GENERAL

1 The Postmaster shall provide, at its own expense, a suitable number of Assistants
with the relevant skills which it may need to operate the Branch.

Zz Assistants are engaged directly by the Postmaster, and the Postmaster will
consequently be responsible (in accordance with and subject to the Agreement) for
any failure, on the part of its Assistants, to:

2.1 apply Post Office Ltd rules or instructions as required by Post Office Ltd;

2.2 complete any training necessary in order to properly assist in the operation of
the Branch; and

2.3 comply with the obligations set out below.

3 This Appendix E contains the obligations which the Postmaster has to fulfil in relation
to the recruitment and employment of each of its Assistants (which includes any
members of the family of the Postmaster or its shareholders or directors). Where
the Postmaster fails to comply with any of these terms, he may be deemed to be in
breach of the Agreement which may, depending on the circumstances, give the Post
Office the right to terminate the Agreement. The obligations in this Appendix E are
additional to the Postmaster’s responsibility, as the employer of any Assistants, to
comply with the provisions of any legislation and regulations that impose obligations
on employers, providers of postal services and financial services, or sellers of
insurance or communications products.

39

OS-#3642108-v1
4

POL00448054

POL00448054

Recruitment

4.1

4.2

4.3

40

The Postmaster shall establish and maintain a recruitment file for each
Assistant. In order to meet its legal obligations regarding monitoring of
compliance, Post Office Ltd will be entitled to inspect such recruitment files
from time to time upon giving the Postmaster reasonable written notice that
they shall be made available for such inspection. The recruitment file shall
include, in the format of the Recruitment Checklist at Annex 2 to this Appendix
—E, a comprehensive record of all checks carried out in relation to the
recruitment, selection and engagement of any person applying to it to be
engaged as an Assistant (referred to in this Appendix E as the “Applicant”).

The Postmaster is responsible for carrying out all necessary checks in order to
satisfy itself as to the honesty, integrity and suitability of any Applicant. The
Postmaster shall also take certain steps, as set out below, in order to satisfy
itself as to:

. an Applicant’s legal right to work in the UK;

. the Applicant’s identity and permanent National Insurance number; and
. the Applicant’s address.

Proof of Right to Work in the UK

The Postmaster will, at all times, be responsible for complying with or ensuring
compliance with the Immigration Act 1971 (as amended) and the Immigration
Rules made under it, or any statutory modification or re-enactment of that Act
or those rules (together referred to as “immigration legislation”) in respect
of any Assistants it engages. It should be noted that in addition to steps to be
taken prior to or at the time of engagement of an Assistant, immigration
legislation places on-going obligations on the Postmaster in respect of
Assistants from certain countries.

If there is any doubt as to whether an Applicant or Assistant has provided
sufficient proof of their right to work in the UK, the Postmaster shall seek
assistance either by telephoning the Government’s Helpline for Employers
or by visiting the Government website at

www.gov.uk/check-job-applicant-right-to-work

The procedures set out in steps 1 - 4 below reflect the current guidance issued
by the UK Border Agency regarding the requirements of current immigration
legislation as at September 2010 prior to engagement of an Assistant.
However, it is the Postmaster’s responsibility to ensure that immigration
legislation is complied with at all times.

Step 1

The Postmaster shall require all Applicants to provide documentation that
satisfies the criteria listed at Annex 1 to this Appendix E.

Step 2

The Postmaster shall satisfy itself that the Applicant is the rightful holder of
any of the documents he presents.

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054
POL00448054

The Postmaster shall carry out the following reasonable steps when checking
any documents presented by an Applicant:

4.3.1 check any photographs, where provided, to ensure that they are
consistent with the appearance of the Applicant;

4.3.2 check that the dates of birth listed are consistent with each other
and with the appearance of the Applicant;

4.3.3 check that the expiry dates are valid and the documents are still
live;

4.3.4 check any United Kingdom Government stamps or endorsements to
see if the Applicant is legally permitted to do the type of work he is
offering;

4.3.5 if the Applicant gives the Postmaster, from the list of documents in

Annex 1, two documents that have different names for the
Applicant, the Postmaster shall ask him for a further document to
explain the reason for this. (The further document could be a
marriage certificate, divorce document, deed poll, adoption
certificate or statutory declaration.)

Step 3

The Postmaster shall make a photocopy of the following parts of all the
documents shown to it for retention in the recruitment file:

4.3.1 the front cover and all of the pages which give the Applicant’s
personal details. In particular, the Postmaster shall copy: (i) the
page with the photograph, and (ii) the page which shows the
Applicant's signature; and

4.3.2 any page containing a United Kingdom Government stamp or
endorsement that permits the Applicant to do the type of work the
Postmaster is offering.

If it is not possible to make the necessary photocopies at the time, the
documents shall be retained, copied at the earliest possible opportunity and
then returned to the Applicant.

Step 4

List in the Applicant’s recruitment file all documents seen and copied on steps
1-3 above (e.g. ‘UK Passport - Number 12345678’; or ‘Full birth certificate and
a P60 dated 14 April 2005’).

4.4. Proof of Permanent National Insurance Number

4.4.1 Unless already provided and photocopied, as part of an Applicant’s
documentation proving his Right to Work in the UK, the Postmaster
will need to see a document giving the Applicant’s permanent
National Insurance Number and name. This could be a: P45, P60,
National Insurance card, or a letter from a Government agency.

4

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054
POL00448054

4.4.2 The Postmaster shall then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the
document seen (there is no need to photocopy the document if it is
provided solely for proving the NI number).

4.4.3 For the small number of Applicants who are unable to supply a
permanent National Insurance number, they shall be asked to
explain why, the reason shall be noted and the Postmaster shall
consider carefully whether to proceed with the application.
Applicants with a genuine reason for being unable to supply a
permanent National Insurance number (such as Applicants from
outside the UK) shall be advised that they would need to obtain one
from the relevant authorities prior to being appointed.

4.5 Proof of Address

The Postmaster shall see at least one of the following items showing the
Applicant’s name and current address:

4.5.1 Driving Licence
4.5.2 Recent Paid Gas or Electricity Bill
4.5.3 Recent Paid Telephone Bill (not mobile)

4.5.4 Recent Paid Council Tax Bill

4.5.5 Recent Paid Water Bill

4.5.6 Recent TV Licence

4.5.7 Recent Bank Statement, shall be supported by a credit/debit card
(In relation to the above “Recent” means no more than 3 months old.)

The Postmaster shall then list in the Applicant’s recruitment file the details of
the document seen (there is no need to photocopy the ‘proof of address’
document).

4.6 The Postmaster shall ensure that all recruitment files for successful Applicants
have been correctly annotated and the associated photocopies have been
included to provide proof of an Applicant’s right to work in the UK. There shall
be no missing photocopies, incorrect combinations of documents or incomplete
tick lists.

4.7 The Postmaster shall not confirm an Applicant’s appointment until the criteria
have been met and the registration process outlined below has been
completed.

4.8 Itis the Postmaster’s responsibility to ascertain that all documentation supplied
by the Applicant satisfies the criteria.

4.9 References
At the recruitment stage, the Postmaster will need to obtain at least 2

references (which shall be independent of the Applicant and of each other) in
respect of the Applicant.

42

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054

POL00448054

4.10 Work History

The Postmaster shall obtain a work history from each Applicant for the
immediately preceding 5 years (unless the period in which each Applicant has
worked can be proved to be less than 5 years, in which case the work history
of the full period shall be obtained). It is the Postmaster’s responsibility to
assure itself of the validity and accuracy of the details provided by the
Applicant. (Measures to achieve this could include questioning at interview, and
the seeking of references from previous employers).

4.11 Honesty, Integrity and Suitability

4.11.1

4.11.2

4.11.3

43

OS-#3642108-v1

The Postmaster shall seek information from each Applicant about
any unspent convictions, including conditional discharges, for any
offence in a Court of Law (including a Youth Court or Court Martial)
or any caution, reprimand or warning. The Postmaster shall also
seek information from each Applicant about any pending criminal
proceedings in which the Applicant might be involved. The
Postmaster shall also seek information from each Applicant about
mis-selling of any product or service or lack of integrity in any form
of employment involving selling.

In order to help prevent the engagement of unsuitable or dishonest
Persons in relation to the Branch, the Postmaster shall, before the
Applicant begins his engagement with the Postmaster, complete
the registration process detailed at 4.11.3 below (referred to in this
Appendix E as the “Registration Process”). Under no circumstances
shall the Postmaster engage an Assistant before the Registration
Process is completed and the Postmaster has received clearance
from Post Office Ltd to engage that Assistant. All Assistants shall be
registered, including members of the Postmaster’s family (or where
the Postmaster is a company any shareholder(s) and/or directors)
who may only occasionally work in the Branch. Holiday reliefs also
need to be registered.

The Registration Process

(i) To register an Applicant as an Assistant, the Postmaster shall
complete the P250 Vetting Pack in accordance with the
guidelines supplied in the pack. The Postmaster may obtain
the Vetting Pack and Guidelines from Post Office Ltd.

(ii) The Postmaster shall ensure that any details about the
Applicant which have come to his/her attention are honestly
recorded on the form. This will enable Post Office Ltd to
conduct its own checks into the background of the Applicant.

(iii) Vetting checks will be carried out upon receipt by Post Office
Ltd of the relevant forms, which shall be fully and legibly
completed. (These checks can take up to fifteen working
days.)

(iv) Post vetting check, the Postmaster will then be informed
whether or not the Applicant has been cleared to access Post
Office Ltd systems and undertake Post Office Ltd.
Transactions.
4.11.4

4.11.5

4.11.6

44

OS-#3642108-v1

POL00448054

POL00448054

(v) Vetting checks will be carried out upon receipt by Post Office
Ltd of the relevant forms, which shall be fully and legibly
completed. (These checks can take up to fifteen working
days.)

(vi) Post vetting check, the Postmaster will then be informed
whether or not the Applicant has been cleared to access Post
Office Ltd systems and undertake Post Office Ltd.

Where Post Office Ltd has good reason to believe that it would not
be in its best interests for a particular Applicant to be engaged in
relation to the Branch it will be entitled to require the Postmaster
to refrain from engaging that Applicant in relation to the Branch if
not already engaged, or to ensure that the Applicant is not further
engaged in relation to the Branch if already engaged. If after such
a requirement has been reasonably made by Post Office Ltd the
Postmaster continues to engage such Applicant it may be deemed
to be in breach of the Agreement as referred to in paragraph 3
above.

If details of any offences committed by the Applicant relating to:
(i) the delivery or handling of mail, post or packets;

(ii) theft or the obtaining of property by deception or fraud;
(iii) mis-selling of any product or service;

(iv) lack of integrity in any form of employment involving selling;
or

(v) dishonest conduct of any kind,

come to Post Office Ltd’s attention by any means and Post Office
Ltd notifies this fact to the Postmaster the Applicant will not until
further notice be eligible to work in relation to the Branch or any
business concerning the Royal Mail Group and the provisions of
paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.

As a general guide, no person under 16 years of age shall be
engaged in relation to the Branch, or have access to Postal Packets.
However where there is no reasonable alternative to the part-time
engagement of an Assistant under 16 years of age, such
engagement may be allowed subject to the following conditions:

(i) no person under the age of 14 years may be engaged in any
capacity;

(ii) the Assistant, even if a family member, shall be fully
registered with Post Office Ltd in accordance with the
provisions of this Appendix E; and

(iii) the Postmaster shall comply with all relevant legislation
affecting the employment of young persons and children.
POL00448054
POL00448054

5 UNSUITABLE PERSONS

5.1 During the entire period that an Assistant is engaged by the Postmaster, the
Postmaster will report immediately to Post Office Ltd any Relevant Information
as soon as it becomes aware of same.

5.2 If:

5.2.1 the Postmaster does not submit a form P250 prior to the
engagement by it of the Applicant; or

5.2.2 the Postmaster does not declare on the form P250 any Relevant
Information concerning the Applicant of which it was aware; or

§.2.3 the Applicant fails any checks carried out internally by Post Office
Ltd; or

5.2.4 the Postmaster does not report to Post Office Ltd as soon as possible

any Relevant Information of which he becomes aware (after
submission of a form P250),

the provisions of paragraph 4.11.4 above will apply.
6 ONGOING REGISTRATION CHECKS

6.1 To meet the needs of regulation and legislation Post Office Ltd shall be able to
maintain accurate details of all those who work in any branch. In addition to
completing forms P250 when engaging new Assistants. The Postmaster is,
therefore, required each year to take part in an annual check of persons
engaged in the Branch and it is absolutely essential that the Postmaster
cooperates fully with this process or any replacement process that Post Office
Ltd may subsequently and reasonably require.

7 SECURITY

7.1. The Postmaster shall inform each of his Assistants of the seriousness of any
offence or damage or interference to any Postal Packet.

7.2 The Postmaster shall ensure that its Assistants comply with the requirements
of this Manual and the Security Operations Manual in general and in particular,
as they apply to:

. the security of the premises;

. the collection, despatch, conveyance or delivery of mail; and

. the measures to be taken to prevent or detect loss or theft of or damage
to a Postal Packet.

7.3. The Postmaster shall maintain records which can enable it as far as is
reasonably practicable, to identify which of its Assistants was responsible for
the conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation, delivery or handling of any Postal
Packet which may have been interfered with.

7.4 The Postmaster shall carry out regular assessments of the risk to Postal Packets
at the Outlet.

45

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054

POL00448054
8 DISCIPLINE
8.1 The Postmaster is responsible for:
8.1.1 ensuring that each of its Assistants is made aware of his obligations
in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Appendix G; and
8.1.2 placing identical such obligations directly upon every Assistant

whom it engages in relation to the Branch.

8.2 The Postmaster shall establish, maintain and adhere consistently to a formal
disciplinary policy in respect of any of its Assistants who fail to comply with the
Postmaster’s obligations as set out in this Manual and the Agreement. Where
the Postmaster already has an established disciplinary policy for its employees
it is simply necessary to ensure that the policy meets the criteria set out in 8.3
and 8.4 below.

8.3 The policy referred to in 8.2 above shall include at least the following elements:

8.3.1 an explanation of what constitutes a “failure to meet the standards
of conduct”, and the action to be taken in relation to such failure;

8.3.2 a description of how the Postmaster has conveyed to its Assistants:

(i) the fact that a failure to meet the standards of conduct might
also constitute a criminal offence; and

(ii) the action which will be taken in relation to any such failure;

8.3.3 a provision for the appropriate records to be maintained detailing
any action taken against an Assistant for failure to meet a required
standard of conduct; and

8.3.4 an explanation of:

(i) how the Postmaster identifies consistent failures to meet the
relevant standards of conduct; and

(ii) what remedial action the Postmaster will take in the event of
consistent failures being made.

8.4 The Postmaster shall regularly review:

« the standards of conduct imposed; and
. the disciplinary policy in place.

8.5 The Postmaster shall keep a formal record of its disciplinary policy and any
exercise by the Postmaster of it, and Post Office Ltd shall be entitled to request
sight of such record from time to time, where it is reasonable to do so in order
to ensure that the Postmaster is complying with its obligations in this respect.

8.6 Where Post Office Ltd believes, in good faith, that an Postmaster has not
implemented the disciplinary policy properly (or at all) against an Assistant,

where circumstances justify such implementation, the provisions of paragraph
3 above will apply.

46

OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054

POL00448054

9 INFORMATION/REPORTING

9.1 The Postmaster shall as soon as possible upon becoming aware of its
occurrence, report to Post Office Ltd every incidence of loss or theft of, damage
to or interference with, a Postal Packet (referred to as an “Incident”).

9.2 The Postmaster shall also record in respect of each Incident at least the
following details:

.

47

OS-#3642108-v1

the date, time and place;

the number of (or, where not known, a reasonable estimate of) Postal
Packets involved;

as far as reasonably practicable, the Assistants who may have
participated in the conveyance, receipt, collection, sortation or delivery
of the Postal Packets involved; and

any other particulars in relation to it (including the factual
circumstances).
POL00448054

POL00448054

APPENDIX E

ANNEX 1

Proof of Right To Work In The UK - Acceptable Documents

A prospective Assistant shall provide:

one of the original documents alone, or two of the original documents in the specified
combinations given in list A below: OR

one of the original documents alone, or two of the original documents in the specified
combinations given in list B below:

LIST A Documents which provide ongoing evidence

1

A passport showing that the holder, or a person named in the passport as the child
of the holder, is a British citizen, or a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies
having the right of abode in the United Kingdom.

A passport or national identity card showing that the holder, or a person named in
the passport as the child of the holder, is a national of the European Economic Area
or Switzerland. (See note * below).

A residence permit, registration certificate or document certifying or indicating
permanent residence issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration Agency or
UK Border Agency to a national of a European Economic Area country or Switzerland.
(See note * below).

A permanent residence card issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration
Agency or UK Border Agency to the family member of a national of a European
Economic Area country or Switzerland. (See note * below).

A Biometric Immigration Document issued by the UK Border Agency to the holder
which indicates that the person named in it is allowed to stay indefinitely in the
United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay in the United Kingdom.

A passport or other travel document endorsed to show that the holder is exempt
from immigration control, is allowed to stay indefinitely in the United Kingdom, has
the right of abode in the United Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay in the
United Kingdom.

An Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office, Border and
Immigration Agency or UK Border Agency to the holder with an endorsement
indicating that the person named in it is allowed to stay indefinitely in the United
Kingdom, or has no time limit on their stay in the United Kingdom, when produced
in combination with an official document giving the person’s permanent National
Insurance Number and their name issued by a Government agency or a previous
employer.

A full birth certificate issued in the United Kingdom which includes the name(s) of at
least one the holder’s parents, when produced in combination with an official
document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and their name
issued by a Government agency or a previous employer.

A full adoption certificate issued in the United Kingdom which includes the name(s)
of at least one of the holder’s adoptive parents when produced in combination with

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054

POL00448054

an official document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and
their name issued by a Government agency or a previous employer.

10 A birth certificate issued in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or Ireland when
produced in combination with an official document giving the person’s permanent
National Insurance Number and their name issued by a Government agency or a
previous employer.

11 A adoption certificate issued in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man or Ireland when
produced in combination with an official document giving the person’s permanent
National Insurance Number and their name issued by a Government agency or a
previous employer.

12 A certificate of registration or naturalization as a British citizen when produced in
combination with an official document giving the person’s permanent National
Insurance Number and their name issued by a Government agency or a previous
employer.

13. A letter issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration Agency or UK Border
Agency to the holder which indicates that the person named in it is allowed to stay
indefinitely in the United Kingdom when produced in combination with an official
document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and their name
issued by a Government agency or a previous employer.

(*European Economic Area Nationals from the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia,
Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, and Slovenia shall register with the Home Office within one
month of starting employment; you shall advise them to register, and you will need to
provide them with evidence of employment (e.g. a Contract or letter) in order to do so.
Once the Home Office registers your employee you shall keep the registration certificate
they send to you. It is a criminal offence not to register an appropriate employee.

Nationals of Romania and Bulgaria are subject to worker authorisation and shall obtain
this authorisation before they begin working. A worker authorisation document provides
employers with evidence from the UK Border Agency that the holder is entitled to work in
the UK and whether they are subject to any conditions. For further information see the
UK Border Agency website at www.ukba.homeoffice.gov.uk/employers).

LIST B Documents which provide evidence for up to 12 months

1 A passport or travel document endorsed to show that the holder is allowed to stay
in the United Kingdom and is allowed to do the type of work in question, provided
that it does not require the issue of a work permit.

2 A Biometric Immigration Document issued by UK Border Agency to the holder which
indicates that the person named in it can stay in the United Kingdom and is allowed
to do the work in question.

3 Awork permit or other approval to take employment issued by Home Office, Border
and Immigration Agency or UK Border Agency, when produced in combination with
either a passport or another travel document endorsed to show the holder is allowed
to stay in the United Kingdom and is allowed to do the work in question, or a letter
issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration Agency or the UK Border Agency
to the holder or the employer or the prospective employer confirming the same.

4 A certificate of application issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration
Agency or UK Border Agency to or for a family member of a national of a European
Economic Area country or Switzerland stating that the holder is permitted to take

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054
POL00448054

employment which is less than 6 months old when produced in combination with
evidence of verification by the UK Border Agency Employer Checking Service.

5 A residence card or document issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration
Agency or UK Border Agency to a family member of a national of a European
Economic Area country or Switzerland.

6 An Application Registration Card issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration
Agency or UK Border Agency stating that the holder is permitted to take employment
when produced in combination with evidence of verification by the UK Border Agency
Employer Checking Service.

7 An Immigration Status Document issued by the Home Office, Border and
Immigration Agency or UK Border Agency to the holder with an endorsement
indicating that the person named in it can stay in the United Kingdom, and is allowed
to do the type of work in question, when produced in combination with an official
document giving the person’s permanent National Insurance Number and their name
issued by a Government agency or a previous employer.

8 A letter issued by the Home Office, Border and Immigration Agency or UK Border
Agency to the holder or employer or prospective employer, which indicates that the
person named in it can stay in the United Kingdom and is allowed to do the work in
question when produced in combination with an official document giving the person’s
permanent National Insurance Number and their name issued by a Government
agency or a previous employer.

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054
POL00448054

APPENDIX E

ANNEX 2
Assistant Recruitment Checklist
Applicant’s Full Name

Applicant’s National Insurance Number

Acti’

ity Yes/No I Document details:
[where applicable]

(a) I At least 2 references obtained?

(b) I Evidence of identity seen?

(c) I Evidence of permanent NI Number seen [Note details]
and any necessary photocopies taken
and retained in the Applicant’s
recruitment file?

(d) I Evidence of address seen? [Note details]

(e) I Evidence of right to work in UK seen and
all necessary photocopies taken and
retained (including Home Office
registration application if applicable) in
the Applicant’s recruitment file?

(f) I Has the 5 year work history been seen
and verified if necessary?

(g) I Has the Applicant ever been found guilty
(including conditional discharges) of any
offence in a court of law (including a
Youth Court or Court Martial)?

(h) I If the answer to (g) is “Yes”, has the
Relevant Information been shown in the
P250

(i) Has the Applicant received any caution,
reprimand or warning, or has he/she
been involved in any mis-selling or lack
of integrity in any form of selling
environment?

(j) I If the answer to (i) is “Yes”, has the
Relevant Information been shown in the
P250?

(k) I Has the P250 been completed in full and
sent to the relevant address?

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054
POL00448054

Yes/No I Document details:
[where applicable]

(m) I Has the authorisation for employment of
the Applicant been received?

(n) I Date employment as _ Assistant
commenced

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054
POL00448054

Appendix F - Responsibility for the Safeguarding of the Mail

1 The Postmaster is responsible for the safekeeping of Postal Packet (as defined in
section 15.3 of this Manual)) whilst such Postal Packets are in its custody, and it
shall take all reasonable measures to protect them from delay, loss, theft, damage
and/or interference of any kind.

2 Security instructions issued and amended (where necessary to minimise the risks
referred to in paragraph 1 above) from time to time by Post Office Ltd set out the
procedures which the Postmaster shall follow in relation to the collection, handling,
conveyance and delivery of any Postal Packet. Failure by the Postmaster or any of

its Assistants to follow any such procedure will be deemed to be a material breach
of the Agreement.

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054

POL00448054

Appendix G — Divulgence of Official Information, Correspondence
& Interviews

DIVULGENCE OF OFFICIAL INFORMATION

1

The unauthorised disclosure, or use, of any information or document which has come
to the knowledge of an Postmaster or Assistant through the Branch or at the Branch
Premises is forbidden. Any such disclosure may render the offender liable to
prosecution.

Neither the Postmaster nor any of its Assistants may disclose any information
regarding Postal Packets except to the person(s) to whom such Postal Packets are
addressed; nor may they make known information that may come to them directly
or indirectly by means of the operation of the Branch concerning the character,
standing, or responsibility of individuals or firms, or the private affairs of any person.

PERSONAL DECLARATIONS

3

All new Postmasters and newly recruited Assistants are required to sign a Personal
Declaration (form P13 available from Post Office Ltd’s HR Service Centre) which
reminds them of the duty of each of Post Office Ltd and the Royal Mail Group to
ensure that all communications and items entrusted to it reach the people for whom
they are intended promptly and safely. The Personal Declaration also brings to the
notice of Postmasters and Assistants their obligations under the Postal Services Act
2000. (An extract from this Act is reproduced at Annex 1 of this Appendix G.)

3.1. Every Postmaster and each of its Assistants is, on termination of his
appointment, required to sign a Declaration (P301) to remind it/him that the
provisions of the Official Secrets Act continue to apply to it/him after it/he has
left in respect of all the information which it/he has acquired or to which he
has had access by virtue of its/his position as Postmaster or Assistant. (A copy
of form P301 is available from Post Office Ltd’s HR Service Centre.)

3.2 The Postmaster shall give each of its Assistants a copy of form P13 and, upon
termination of its appointment, form P301, as a reminder of the importance of
the messages they contain. The duty not to disclose information is imposed by
the Act referred to in 3.2 above - not by any Personal Declarations.
Consequently no Postmaster or Assistant can avoid these legal obligations by
refusing to sign a form or by attempting to revoke or disclaim his signature on
the form(s).

Any request made to the Postmaster or its Assistant by the Police or any other
authority, or by a private person, for information which may be confidential, or may
concern matters connected with the duties of another Postmaster or an employee of
Post Office Ltd or the Royal Mail Group, or which is related to the Branch or any of
its (potential) Customers, shall be referred immediately to Post Office Ltd.

BREACHES TO BE REPORTED

5

The Postmaster shall immediately report to Post Office Ltd any case in which there
appears to have been a breach of the above rules by anyone engaged by it in relation
to the Branch.

OS-#3642108-v1

Mains Operations Manual 100920.docx
POL00448054
POL00448054

APPENDIX G

ANNEX 1

Summary of Extracts from Acts of Parliament
1 Theft Act 1968/Criminal Damage Act 1971
The offences of theft or destruction of a postal packet are covered by the Theft Act
1968 or Criminal Damage Act 1971. Persons convicted on indictment for such
offences are liable under the relevant sections of those Acts to imprisonment.
POSTAL SERVICES ACT 2000
2(i) Section 83 - Interference with the mail
Any person engaged in the business of a postal Postmaster commits an offence if
contrary to his duty and without reasonable excuse he intentionally delays or opens
a postal packet in the course of its transmission by post, or intentionally opens a
mailbag. Persons convicted on indictment shall be liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding two years or to a fine, or both.
2(ii) Section 125(1)
Postal packet means a letter, parcel, packet or other articles transmissible by post.
2(iii) Schedule 7 Unauthorised Disclosure of Information
Any person who makes an unauthorised disclosure of information obtained whilst

dealing with work of a universal service provider, which relates to the affairs of an
individual or a particular business commits a criminal offence.

9§-#3642108-v1
POL00448054
POL00448054

APPENDIX H

INSTRUCTIONS TO POSMASTERS FOR POST OFFICE LTD PAYSTATION™
TERMINALS

1 Definitions

1.1. In addition to the terms defined in the Agreement, in these Instructions the
words below have the meaning next to them unless the context requires

otherwise:
paystation™ a Post Office paystation™ terminal
Paystation Monies payments (in the form prescribed by Post Office

Ltd from time to time) which are to be accepted by
the Postmaster from Customers of Post Office Ltd
in relation to Paystation Products

Paystation Operations Manual I the manual for the operation of the paystation™
provided by Post Office Ltd, as amended from time
to time by Post Office Ltd in accordance with the
Agreement

Paystation Product any Product or Service which may from time to
time be transacted via the paystation™, the choice
of such Products and/or Services to be at Post
Office Ltd’s sole discretion. A summary of the
principal types of Product and Service that can be
transacted via the paystation™ is set out in the
Paystation Operations Manual

Paystation Fees the fees that will be paid by Post Office Ltd to the
Postmaster in relation to each Paystation Product
transacted by the Postmaster, as referred to in the
Fees Booklet

working day each day on which the paystation™ shall be
operated and available for Customers as required
by paragraph 8 below

2 Paystation Operations Manual
2.1 Post Office Ltd will provide the Postmaster with a copy of the Paystation
Operations Manual and the Postmaster shall comply with the Paystation
Operations Manual and these instructions.
3 Paystation Payment

3.1 The Paystation Fees shall be paid to the Postmaster in the same way as other
Fees are paid to the Postmaster under the Agreement.

0S-#3642108-v1 56
POL00448054
POL00448054

4 Installation of the paystation™

4.1 The Postmaster shall ensure that it has obtained, at its own cost, all consents
or approvals needed in relation to the installation and operation of the
paystation™ at the Branch Premises.

4.2 Post Office Ltd or its contractors will install the paystation™ in a prominent
location within the Branch Premises acceptable to both the Postmaster and Post
Office Ltd. The Postmaster shall not move the paystation™ from the position
where it was initially installed without the written consent of Post Office Ltd.

5 Operation of the paystation™

5.1 If the Postmaster becomes aware that the installation and/or the operation of
the paystation™ adversely affects the functionality of any other equipment in
or services to the Branch Premises, including, without limitation, Horizon
and/or any alarm system, the Postmaster shall notify Post Office Ltd and
comply with all reasonable instructions given by Post Office Ltd as a result.

5.2 If the Postmaster experiences any problems with the paystation™, he shall in
the first instance contact the telephone helpline specified in the Paystation
Operations Manual and operated by or on behalf of Post Office Ltd for this
purpose.

5.3 The Postmaster shall, at his own cost, ensure that a telephone line, telephone
socket and power supply are continuously available so as to ensure that the
paystation™ is operational at the Branch Premises at all times.

5.4 The Postmaster shall not carry out, and shall not allow any Assistant to carry
out, any maintenance, servicing or repairs to the paystation™ other than as
set out in the Paystation Operations Manual, nor use the paystation™ for any
other purpose other than as permitted by these Instructions.

5.5 The Postmaster shall take proper care of the paystation™ and shall not add or
combine the paystation™ or any part of it with any other equipment, whether
hardware or software or otherwise.

5.6 The Postmaster shall ensure that any approved proprietary notices affixed to
the paystation™ are not removed, defaced or altered in any way whatsoever.

5.7 The Postmaster shall:

5.7.1 display prominently within the Branch Premises the advertising and
point of sale material supplied by Post Office Ltd from time to time;
and

B.72: only use advertising or promotional material that relates to or

mentions the paystation™ if Post Office Ltd has provided or
approved such material.

6 Damage or Theft

6.1 The Postmaster shall as soon as reasonably practicable report any theft of,
damage to, failure or malfunction of the paystation™ to Post Office Ltd by
calling the helpline and comply with all reasonable instructions given by Post
Office Ltd via the helpline, and shall also promptly report any theft of the
paystation™ or consumables to the police.

0S-#3642108-v1 57
POL00448054
POL00448054

6.2 The Postmaster shall promptly notify Post Office Ltd of any damage caused to
Post Office Ltd property due to the installation, use or maintenance of the
paystation™.

6.3 The Postmaster shall reimburse Post Office Ltd for the cost of replacement or
repair of the paystation™ if such replacement or repair is, in the opinion of Post
Office Ltd, necessary due to the negligence, carelessness or error of the
Postmaster, or was caused by his or her Personnel.

7 Consumables

7.1 Post Office Ltd will supply all consumables (e.g. receipt paper rolls and
batteries) reasonably required for the processing of transactions via the
paystation™. Such consumables shall not be used for any other purpose and
no consumables other than those supplied by Post Office Ltd may be utilised in
connection with the operation of the paystation™.

7.2 The Postmaster shall count and sign for all consumables provided which relate
to the paystation™ and maintain adequate stock controls for such consumables
and keep those not required in a secure area.

8 Hours of Operation

8.1 The Postmaster shall ensure that the paystation™ is operated and available to
Customers as a minimum on each day and during the Opening Times specified
in the Agreement.

9 Payment of Paystation Fees

9.1 The Postmaster shall ensure that each Customer transaction is processed as a
single transaction and not split into smaller transactions, subject to any
maximum transaction limits for any of the Paystation Products.

9.2 The Postmaster shall retain all paystation™ till roll receipts and provide the
same to Post Office Ltd within three (3) working days, if requested.

9.3 The Postmaster shall input the details of the Paystation Monies received via the
paystation™ into Horizon ideally on a daily basis but in any event no later than
the next day that the Branch is open and pay all Paystation Monies received
into Horizon, by either depositing cash or making a cash equivalent payment
(i.e. by debit card) into Horizon in accordance with the Paystation Operations
Manual.

9.4 The Postmaster shall not accept cheques in payment of Paystation Products.

9.5 The Postmaster acknowledges that Paystation Monies are accepted by the
Postmaster as agent for clients of Post Office Ltd and are not part of the income,
proceeds or revenue of the Postmaster.

9.6 If at any time the Postmaster fails to pay any Paystation Monies into Horizon
as and when required by the Paystation Operations Manual, the obligation to
pay any of the Paystation Monies into Horizon will still exist and the Postmaster

shall:
9.6.1 hold the monies on trust for Post Office Ltd; and
9.6.2 as soon as possible pay such Paystation Monies into Horizon.

0S-#3642108-v1 58
POL00448054
POL00448054

9.7 Paystation Monies are at the risk of the Postmaster until paid into Horizon and
a receipt is issued concerning such payment.

10 Staff

10.1 All staff operating the paystation™ shall have been properly trained by the
Postmaster in its proper use and any service standards set out in the Paystation
Operations Manual before they are permitted to operate it.

10.2 The Postmaster shall inform Post Office Ltd immediately if any service
standards cannot be met.

10.3 If required by Post Office Ltd at any time to do so, the Postmaster shall register
any staff operating the paystation™ as assistants in accordance with the
Agreement and this Manual and shall not allow any staff to operate or to
continue operating the paystation™ until they have been so registered.

10.4 Unless staff who operate the paystation™ have been registered with Post Office
Ltd as Assistants they may not have access to any Products and/or Services
nor may they operate Horizon.

10.5 The Postmaster shall, if required by Post Office Ltd at any time to do so, ensure
that any member of its staff specified by Post Office Ltd (irrespective of whether
or not they have been registered as an Assistant) does not operate the
paystation™.

11 Inspection

11.1 The Postmaster will, at all times, if required by Post Office Ltd, allow Post Office
Ltd, its employees, agents and contractors, full access to the Branch Premises
for the purpose of determining the location of, installing, inspecting,
maintaining, repairing and replacing the paystation™ and for inspection of
records relating to transactions, payments received, consumables and security
arrangements in place in respect of the Branch Premises.

12  Paystation™ Deactivation and Withdrawal

12.1 The paystation™ will at all times remain the property of Post Office Ltd. Post
Office Ltd may remove it and all other associated equipment from the Branch
Premises, as the case may be, at any time by giving the Postmaster not less
than two (2) working days’ notice in writing. Post Office Ltd also reserves the
right to require the Postmaster to immediately return the paystation™ to it, at
Post Office Ltd’s cost, on demand.

12.2 Post Office Ltd may at any time and without notice change the specification of
or deactivate the paystation™ (by remote means or otherwise) and may at any
time instruct the Postmaster to immediately cease to operate the paystation™
until further notice from Post Office Ltd.

13 Consequences of Withdrawal or Deactivation

13.1 If the paystation™ is withdrawn or deactivated by Post Office Ltd then the
Postmaster shall:

13.1.1 immediately stop using the paystation™;

0S-#3642108-v1 59
POL00448054
POL00448054

13.1.2 input the details of any remaining Paystation Monies (not yet
inputted at the time of withdrawal or deactivation) into Horizon and
pay all remaining Paystation Monies (not yet paid into Horizon at
the time of withdrawal or deactivation) into Horizon; and

13.1.3 immediately return to Post Office Ltd any copies of the Paystation
Operations Manual held by him.

0S-#3642108-v1 60
POL00448054
POL00448054

APPENDIX I - Instructions for Post Office Ltd Application,
Enrolment and Identity Equipment

1 Definitions

1.1 In addition to the terms defined in the Agreement, in these Instructions the
words below have the meaning next to them unless the context requires
otherwise:

AEI Equipment the equipment provided and installed
by Post Office Ltd for the purpose of
enabling Customers to apply for,
enrol with and/or have their identity
checked in relation to any document,
product, service or other instrument;

AEI Operations Manual the manual for the operation of the
AEI Equipment provided by Post
Office Ltd, as amended from time to
time by Post Office Ltd in accordance
with the Agreement;

AEI Transaction means any transaction required by
Post Office Ltd to be performed on
the AEI Equipment, as specified in
the AEI Manual or in other written
instructions from time to time;

Enabling Works those works identified by Post Office
Ltd in the Survey Report which need
to be carried out at the Branch
Premises in order to enable the AEI
Equipment to be installed and
operated at the Branch;

Helpline the telephone helpline specified in
the AEI Operations Manual;

Survey Report the report prepared by Post Office
Ltd or its contractors following a
survey of the Branch Premises, as
referred to in paragraph 3.2;

working day means each day on which the AEI
Equipment shall be operated and
available for customers as required
by paragraph 7 below.

0S-#3642108-v1 61
POL00448054
POL00448054

2 AEI Operations Manual

2.1 Post Office Ltd will provide the Postmaster with a copy of the AEI Operations
Manual and the Postmaster shall comply with the AEI Operations Manual and
these Instructions.

3 Installation of the AEI Equipment

3.1 The Postmaster agrees to the performance of the Enabling Works and the
installation of the AEI Equipment in the Branch Premises by Post Office Ltd or
its contractor on the date(s) notified to the Postmaster by Post Office Ltd or its
contractor in writing.

3.2 Post Office Ltd has agreed with the Postmaster the precise location where the
main part of the AEI Equipment will be installed. This is noted on the Survey
Report (a copy of which will be made available to the Postmaster following a
request to Post Office Ltd). The AEI Equipment will be located within the area
of the Branch Premises adjacent to the Dedicated Post Office Ltd Counter and
may extend beyond the area currently occupied by the Branch. The remainder
of the AEI Equipment (comprising a computer processing unit, display screen
and keyboard) will be located behind the Dedicated Post Office Ltd Counter. In
determining the appropriate locations for the AEI Equipment in the Branch
Premises, Post Office Ltd and the Postmaster have considered, amongst other
things, any health and safety implications and the proper operation of the
business at the Branch Premises.

3.3 Subject to paragraph 4.4, Post Office Ltd or its contractors will carry out the
Enabling Works and then install the AEI Equipment in the Branch Premises in
the agreed location.

3.4 Where in Post Office Ltd’s discretion it determines at any time that the cost of
carrying out the Enabling Works, and/or any other works that it may consider
are required in order to enable the safe and proper installation or operation of
the AEI Equipment, are or are likely to be unreasonable or excessive, or for
any other reason, Post Office Ltd may (in its discretion) decide not to proceed
with or complete the Enabling Works and/or any such other works, in which
case Post Office Ltd will make good to a reasonable standard any damage
caused to the Branch Premises by any Enabling Works or other works already
performed but will have no other liability to the Postmaster and will be under
no obligation to install the AEI Equipment.

3.5 Once installed, Post Office Ltd or its contractors will test the AEI Equipment to
make sure that it is functioning properly. If such testing reveals that there are
any issues with the AEI Equipment, Post Office Ltd or its contractors shall
resolve such issues or, if the issues cannot be resolved, shall arrange for the
AEI Equipment to be removed and, if in Post Office Ltd’s opinion it is
appropriate, replaced. If the AEI Equipment has to be removed in such
circumstances, Post Office Ltd will, at its cost, repair to a reasonable standard
any damage to the Branch Premises caused by the installation or the removal
of the AEI Equipment. Without prejudice to paragraph 10 below, once the AEI
Equipment is installed and operational the Postmaster shall start to use it from
the “go live” date notified by Post Office Ltd or, in the absence of such
notification, shall start using it immediately.

3.6 The Postmaster shall ensure that he has obtained, at his own cost, all consents

or approvals (for example, landlord’s consent) needed in relation to the
installation and operation of the AEI Equipment in the Branch Premises.

0S-#3642108-v1 62
POL00448054
POL00448054

3.7 The Postmaster shall not move the AEI Equipment from the position where it
was initially installed without the prior written consent of Post Office Ltd.

4 Operation of the AEI Equipment

4.1 If the Postmaster becomes aware that the installation and/or the operation of
the AEI Equipment adversely affects the functionality of any other equipment
in or services to the Branch, including, without limitation, Horizon and/or any
alarm system, the Postmaster shall notify Post Office Ltd and comply with all
reasonable instructions given by Post Office Ltd as a result.

4.2 If the Postmaster experiences any problems with the AEI Equipment, he shall
in the first instance consult the AEI Operations Manual but, if that does not
contain the answer to the problem, the Postmaster shall contact the Helpline
operated by or on behalf of Post Office Ltd for this purpose.

4.3. The Postmaster shall, at his own cost, ensure that a telephone line, telephone
socket and power supply are continuously available so as to ensure that the
AEI Equipment is operational at the Branch Premises at all times.

4.4 The Postmaster shall not carry out any maintenance, servicing or repairs to the
AEI Equipment other than as set out in the AEI Operations Manual. The
Postmaster shall clean the AEI Equipment every working day in the manner
and using the cleaning materials prescribed in the AEI Operations Manual.

4.5 The Postmaster shall take proper care of the AEI Equipment and shall not add
or combine the AEI Equipment or any part of it with any other equipment,
whether hardware or software or otherwise.

4.6 The Postmaster shall ensure that any approved proprietary notices affixed to
the AEI Equipment are not removed, defaced or altered in any way whatsoever.

4.7. The Postmaster shall:

4.7.1 display prominently within the Branch Premises the advertising and
point of sale material supplied by Post Office Ltd from time to time;
and

4.7.2 not display or use any advertising or promotional material that

relates to or mentions the AEI Equipment unless it has been
provided or approved by Post Office Ltd.

4.7.3 The Postmaster shall not use (nor allow others to use) the AEI
Equipment, nor the area within the footprint of AEI Equipment,
other than for:

4.7.4 the performance of AEI Transactions proper to be performed on or
in it; and
4.7.5 any other purpose expressly permitted by these Instructions.

5 Damage or Theft
5.1 The Postmaster shall as soon as reasonably practicable report any theft of,

damage to, failure or malfunction of the AEI Equipment or any part of it to Post
Office Ltd by calling the Helpline and comply with all reasonable instructions

0S-#3642108-v1 63
POL00448054
POL00448054

given by Post Office Ltd via the Helpline, and shall also promptly report any
theft of the AEI Equipment or consumables to the police.

5.2 The Postmaster shall promptly notify Post Office Ltd of any damage caused to
Post Office Ltd property due to the installation, use or maintenance of the AEI
Equipment.

5.3. The Postmaster shall reimburse Post Office Ltd for the cost of replacement or
repair (other than as a result of fair wear and tear) of the AEI Equipment if
such replacement or repair is necessary due to the negligence carelessness or
error of the Postmaster or is caused by his Personnel.

6 Consumables

6.1 Post Office Ltd will supply all consumables (e.g. soft wipes for the terminal
touch screen and printed labels) reasonably required for the use of the AEI
Equipment. Such consumables shall not be used for any other purpose and no
consumables other than those supplied by Post Office Ltd may be utilised in
connection with the operation of the AEI Equipment.

6.2 The Postmaster shall count and sign for all consumables provided which relate
to the AEI Equipment and maintain adequate stock controls for such
consumables and keep those not required in a secure area.

6.3 Post Office Ltd will bear the cost of providing the consumables reasonably
required for the operation of the AEI Equipment.

7 Hours of Operation
7.1 The Postmaster shall ensure that the AEI Equipment is operated and available
to customers to carry out AEI Transactions on each day and during all the hours
that the Dedicated Post Office Counter Position is open for business.
8 Use of AEI Equipment
8.1 The Postmaster shall:

8.1.1 provide all reasonable assistance to enable all customers, including
disabled customers, to properly access and use the AEI Equipment;

8.1.2 immediately contact the Helpline and subsequently provide a
written report (together with any supporting evidence) to Post
Office Ltd with regard to any customer:

(i) I whose behaviour in relation to the use of the AEI Equipment
is suspicious; or

(ii) whom the Postmaster believes has presented false documents
or documents which do not appear to belong to the customer
in relation to an AEI Transaction utilising the AEI Equipment;

8.1.3 in performing AEI Transactions using the AEI Equipment, comply at
all times with the AEI Operations Manual and the Agreement.

0S-#3642108-v1 64
POL00448054
POL00448054

9 Staff

9.1 The Postmaster shall, in sufficient time prior to the installation of the AEI
Equipment, provide Post Office Ltd with details of those of its staff working in
the Branch whom the Postmaster wishes to operate the AEI Equipment so that
Post Office Ltd may check whether such nominated staff are registered as
Assistants in accordance with the Agreement. The Postmaster shall not allow
any staff to operate or to continue operating the AEI Equipment until or unless
they have been registered as Assistants in accordance with the Agreement and
the Manual and they have passed any additional background checks that may
be required by Post Office Ltd or its Clients from time to time. The same
requirements shall also apply to any staff that the Postmaster may
subsequently wish to operate the AEI Equipment.

9.2 All staff operating the AEI Equipment shall have been properly trained by the
Postmaster in its proper use and any service standards set out in the AEI
Operations Manual before they are permitted to operate it.

9.3 The Postmaster shall inform Post Office Ltd immediately if any service
standards cannot be met.

9.4 At Post Office Ltd’s request, the Postmaster shall ensure that any member of
his staff specified by Post Office Ltd (irrespective of whether or not they have
been registered as an Assistant) does not operate the AEI Equipment.

9.5 The Postmaster shall ensure that it has sufficient number of staff who, in
accordance with this paragraph 9, have been registered as Assistants, have
passed any additional background checks and have been trained in the use of
the AEI Equipment so that the AEI Equipment can be properly operated during
all the opening hours of the Branch from the date of its installation.

10 Inspection

10.1 The Postmaster will, at all times, if required by Post Office Ltd, allow Post Office
Ltd, its employees, agents and contractors, full access to the Branch Premises
(including but not Ltd to the private retail area) for the purpose of determining
the location of, installing, inspecting, testing, maintaining, repairing and
replacing the AEI Equipment and for inspection of records relating to AEI
Transactions, payments received, consumables and security arrangements in
place in respect of the Branch Premises.

11 AEI Equipment Deactivation and Withdrawal

11.1 The AEI Equipment will at all times remain the property of Post Office Ltd. Post
Office Ltd may remove it and all other associated equipment from the Branch
Premises at any time by giving the Postmaster not less than two (2) working
days’ notice in writing. Post Office Ltd also reserves the right to require the
Postmaster to make the AEI Equipment available for collection, at Post Office
Ltd’s cost, on demand.

11.2 Post Office Ltd may at any time and without notice change the specification of
or deactivate the AEI Equipment (by remote means or otherwise) and may at
any time instruct the Postmaster to immediately cease to operate the AEI
Equipment until further notice from Post Office Ltd.

0S-#3642108-v1 65
12

13

POL00448054

POL00448054

Consequences of Withdrawal or Deactivation

12.1

12.2

12.3

12.4

If the AEI Equipment is withdrawn or deactivated by Post Office Ltd or the
Agreement is terminated then the Postmaster shall immediately:

12.1.1 stop using the AEI Equipment;

12.1.2 return to Post Office Ltd any copies of the AEI Operations Manual
held by him;

12.1.3. allow Post Office Ltd access to remove the AEI Equipment; and

12.1.4 remove and destroy any advertising in the Branch Premises relating
to the AEI Equipment.

If the AEI Equipment is removed or moved at Post Office Ltd’s request (other
than due to the Postmaster's breach of these Instructions or the Agreement),
Post Office Ltd will, at its cost, repair to a reasonable standard any damage to
the Branch Premises caused by the installation or removal of the AEI
Equipment.

The Postmaster shall have no right to require Post Office Ltd to remove, move
or relocate the AEI Equipment during the term of the Agreement, save where
this is necessary due to a defect in the AEI Equipment which cannot be
remedied or resolved through replacing the AEI Equipment, and shall have no
right to remove, move or relocate it himself during the term of the Agreement.

The Postmaster may request that Post Office Ltd arranges for the moving or
relocation of the AEI Equipment (whether as part of a request for permission
under the Agreement to refurbish or relocate the Branch or otherwise) and, if
Post Office Ltd agrees to this request, the Postmaster shall be responsible for
the reimbursing to Post Office Ltd the cost of moving or relocating the AEI
Equipment and shall himself be responsible for the cost of any consequential
remedial works to the Branch Premises, irrespective of any provisions to the
contrary in the Agreement.

Fees

13.1

For every compliant AEI Transaction properly performed in accordance with
these Instructions and the AEI Manual in the Branch using the AEI Equipment,
Post Office Ltd will pay the Postmaster the following sum:

AEI Transaction Type Remuneration per compliant AEI

Transaction

Type 1
photo and signature

- Transactions involving a I £2.50

13.2

AEI Transactions may be varied or withdrawn by Post Office Ltd from time to
time and the fees may be varied by Post Office Ltd from time to time in
accordance with the Agreement.

0S-#3642108-v1 66
POL00448054
POL00448054

13.3 Where payable, the fees for AEI Transactions undertaken with the AEI
Equipment will be included in the Postmaster’s normal fees from Post Office
Ltd. If, following payment of any fees, Post Office Ltd identifies that the AEI
Transaction for which it was paid was not compliant, Post Office Ltd may
recover it from the Postmaster by deducting it from subsequent fees or by
invoicing the Postmaster, provided that Post Office Ltd has conducted a
reasonable investigation as to the reason for the non-compliance and has
established that the fault for such non-compliance is properly attributed to the
Postmaster. A compliant AEI Transaction is one which complies fully with the
requirements of these Instructions, the AEI Operations Manual and the
Agreement. Fault for non-compliance will be properly attributed to the
Postmaster where it occurs as a result of the Postmaster’s negligence,
carelessness or error or as a result of the actions or inactions of his Personnel.

0S-#3642108-v1 67
Appendix J - Basic Sale Conversations

Basic Sales

Conversations
Agency Network

POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054

0S-#3642108-v1 69
WELCOME

(OS-#3642108-v1

POL00448054

POL00448054

Our Care Promise
Value people and their time - accessibility and speed of service

We value our customers and we value each other. We work
together as a team to serve our customers quickly and help
vulnerable customers’ access important services.

Make it personal - establishing a rapport

We give every customer a friendly and personal service, every
time they use us. From the welcoming greeting, to the warm
farewell, we treat our customers as we’d expect to be treated.

Listen and understand - talking to customers’ to understand
their needs

We take time to listen to our customers and ask relevant
questions to understand their needs. If it’s important to them
it’s important to us.

Conscience and expertise - doing the right thing in the right
way

We act with integrity and take pride in using our expertise to
help customers get the right product, service or information to
meet their needs and in transacting it correctly.

Keep our word - doing what we say we will

We earn and continue to grow our customers’ trust by making
sure customers know what to expect of us and by doing what we
say we will.

Basic Sales Conversations

Every customer deserves to receive a great level of customer
service whenever they use us. Colleagues play a critical role in
delivering this and the content of this pack will support in helping
to deliver a great experience to every customer every time.

Informing your customers about products and services that
could be right for them is one of the ways we can help meet their
needs and provide excellent service. It’s really important that
customers receive accurate information about our products and
experience the same level of service across the entire network.

As a business that promises to care we have a responsibility to
help our customers. Care is the cornerstone of our business. It
means valuing people and their time; making it personal;
listening and understanding; being guided by our conscience and
expertise; and keeping our word. In short, it means doing right
by people, and it’s what sets us apart.

Our Care Promise gives us a foundation to build a great customer
experience, but we can’t do it without you. By living the Care
Promise every day we're confident that you'll be giving
customers an outstanding experience that they'll remember and
want to repeat, as well as making your branch a success by
making the most of every opportunity.

70
WELCOME

0800 OM)

(OS-#3642108-v1

POL00448054

POL00448054

Making the most of opportu Ss in branch

As well as using the sales conversations in this pack, it’s
really important that we inform customers carrying out basic
transactions about relevant products and services we provide
that may be of interest to them.

The following page contains a list of basic transactions where
you have the opportunity to introduce a related product using
one of the basic sales conversations.

Regardless of the cross sell opportunity, where relevant,
every transaction shall always end with “Would you like to
top up your mobile while you are here?” and asking each
customer if they would like to pay by debit card and offering
a cash withdrawal if it is one of our partner banks.

Don’t forget to give every customer a warm goodbye!

S&S

71

Providing Excellent Customer Service

Key Opportunities

Inland Mails, eBay, Business Customers

Cash withdrawals

Redirections, Bill payments, any change of address
requirements

Customers aged 50+

MVLs, Driving Licence applications, all

related transactions

driving

Credit and Debit card users, Travel Money and
Passport customers

Passport customers, any _ Travel related
transactions
Savings transactions, debit and credit card

customers

Travel Money customers, Passport customers
Requesting Passport forms, EHIC enquiry
Telecoms customers, bill payers, mobile phone
users, customers posting abroad

Partner bank cheques and cards presented

Asylum seeker cards, posting abroad, international
phone cards

Customers with children/infants

E Top Up, HomePhone and Broadband

Customers posting overseas using Royal Mail/
Parcelforce, Express Mails services, HomePhone
and Broadband

MoneyGram

0S-#3642108-v1 72

POL00448054

POL00448054
Relevant Product
Special Delivery, express
24/express48

Savings, Life Insurance

Home Insurance, HomePhone and
Broadband

Life Insurance, Car Insurance

Car Insurance

Travel Money Card Plus, Credit
Card, Travel Insurance

Travel Services

Post Office Ltd Savings

Travel Insurance

Passport Check and Send Service,
Travel Services

HomePhone and Broadband

Personal Banking, Savings

MoneyGram, HomePhone = and

Broadband

Life Insurance/New Parent Cover

MoneyGram

Parcelforce, Life

Insurance

HomePhone,
POL00448054
POL00448054

alls

08-#3642108-v1 73
POL00448054
POL00448054

Infand Malls Distance Learning Pack

Inland Mail Conversation

Follow Dangerous Goods and restricted goods procedure as appropriate

Pinte (or containing cash. Over: DOES NOT contain cash.
I'd recommend Rayal Mail Special Delivery Md recommend express24 which guarantees
‘Guaranteed. k's delivered by Ipm tomorrow and delivery by 5:30pm next working day. It
includes Full tracking, a signature on delivery includes full tracking, a signature on delivery
and compensation up to £500 as standard (or ‘and compensation up to £100 (or up to
up to £2500 for an additional fee) Is that OK? £2,500 for an additional fee) Is that OK?

t tele back’ Royal Mal Specal Det
re to Royal Mall Special Delivery

tender hg and cusomer does nox wamt i over 2g and cunomer wancs tacking 4
Ud recommend express4B which is ideal for items
Td recommend Royal Mail Signed For. It includes ‘over 2kg It guarantees delivery by 5:30pm within
a signature on delivery and compensation up ‘2working days. b's tracked, with a signature on
to £50. le class would be OX. ls that OK? delivery and compensation up to £100 (or up

to £2,500 for an additional fee) ls that OK?

Hf customer says "No"

Follow Horizon Online procedures for dangerous goods as appropriate
-_

For Small and Medium parcels For Levers & Large Lewers
(Exctoding parcels to Ise of Man, Channel (including parcels to ble of Man, Channel ae
‘islands and BFPO) islands snd BFPO)
You can send it by expressABis the best
cor 2 Class for EX/EY ‘Youcan send it by For value for money which
which includes ontine 2 Class For EX/EY which provides 2 fully tracked
delivery confirmation and includes compensation for ‘service with a signature
compensation for up to upto £20, is not tacked on delivery. Alternatively,
£20, it's not tracked and and there is no signature youcan send it by Ist
there is no signature on ‘on delivery, is that OK? cor 2nd Class for EX/EY.
delivery, is that OK? Which would you prefes?

"Where relevant show customers where their reference number is on thelr Certificate of Posting and
remind them to keep It safe.

Always remember to ask customers ‘would you like to buy stamps today?”

i) Approval No OO17/17

0S-#3642108-v1 74
International Malls Distance Leatring Pack

International Mail Conversation

Follow counter procedures for Dangerous / Restricted Goods as appropriate

From next working day

\ Follow horizon on

v v

balexpress is our fastest service. slobelpriority offers tracking to most
Its guaranteed, Tracked, Signed For and destinations, it's guaranteed, gets a signature on
includes compensation up to£200
(or up to £2,500 for an additional fee)

Ie that OK?

If not sultable/if customers say “NO”

Europe 3-5 working days or rest of the world 5-7 working days
Inclusive compensation of £50, extra cover up to £250

Royal Mail International
Tracked § Signed provides end Royal Mail International Signed Royal Mal International Tracked
to end tracking, a signature is wacked within the UK and provides end to end tracking and
con delivery and online provides a signature of delivery online confirmation of delivery
confirmation of delivery

procedures for dangerous goods as appropriate
Tr
a

If customers say “NO” II,

Royal Ma Royal Mil 5 :
eS Se SESS rane earnest
days for Europe and 57 for andorestof theworldfiom& Wet wah ue te EOD
the rest of world and includes weeks after sending. includes ee eee et ee

up to £20 compensation up to £20 compensation meet “er

‘Approval Number: PFRM 0929/17

0S-#3642108-v1 75

POL00448054
POL00448054
Travel
Services

(OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054
POL00448054

‘Passport Check 8 Sand Distance Learning Pack

How can I introduce this service?

wh I
le <

FSRisk approval number: FSR 437/16

0S-#3642108-v1 77
POL00448054
POL00448054

Passport Check 6 Send Distance Learning Pack

How can make the most of this service?

Every time a customer asks to have their passport form(s) checked and sent

you travelling? Who are you going Please come back and talk tous as
with? What type of holiday is it and foveni ns pou bosk amy taps’
how long are you going for?

v Thensay

*Our Travel Insurance will cost XX
for you and any children under the age
‘of 18 or £XX for an annual policy.
Would you like some more information
‘or for me to arrange that for you now?

v Yes

There are a few different ways to take your
money, some cash for the first few days, Multi
Currency Travel Money Card for security and
convenience and Travellers’ Cheques as a
back-up.
Would you like me to arrange any of these for
younow?
We also have a competitive Credit Card that
could save you money if you use it abroad.
‘Would you like some more information?

FSRIsk approval number: FSR 437/16

0S-#3642108-v1 78
POL00448054
POL00448054

‘Travel Money Distance Learning Pack

Talking about Post Office
Travel Money

Every time a customer asks to purchase Travel Money:

Y Thensay

‘There are a few different ways to take your money. some cash for the first few days, Multi
‘Currency Travel Money Card for security and convenience and Travellers’ Cheques as a back-
up. We also have a competitive Credit Card that could save you money if you use it abroad.

L One tip ab Mute-Tap a) Altinctusive «) DreamHoliday
The Multi Currency ‘There are always
eS a grestway to keep budget for, sil you ae
are likely to spend? ‘any currency you ‘might want to go on ri —_
iets eee don't spend safe in ‘an excursion, buy. qe
SSeS See a ree
yourselves to (peace
aeaad ae ere =a
v

‘You getour special rate if you take over £1,000 of currency or £700 on a Multi Currency Travel Money Card.
‘Alveays offer the BETTER/RECOM option to the customer first.
We ean doa nice round XXX for just EXXX. le that OK for you?

v

v

If you have any currency left over after your holiday, we can buy it back commission free
atthe rate of the day. Have a lovely trip.

Sisk Approval No FSR 611/17
POLY Approval Ne: S19/17 - Review Dane: 20/3/18

0S-#3642108-v1 79
POL00448054
POL00448054

‘Travel Money Distance Learning Pack

Travel Money Buy-Back

Every time a customer ts bringing back Travel Money:

Did youuse a credit or debit card whilst you were away?

\) Customer uses a credit card s). Customer uses a debit card
Unlike some credit card providers. our Platinum Credit We have our Travel Money Multi Currency Card. It works
(Card doesn't charge a fee on purchases made abroad. Plus, justlike your debit card, but it's safer and it could save you
‘you could also save money if you use our Credit Cards to some money.
‘buy your currency from us. Would you be interested in using one of these cards next time
Would you like some more information? ‘yougo away?

b ves b Ne

v ves 4 Ne
Advanced conversation:

‘Where possible, please ensure that all Travel Services customers are served by your TPSS/PC/CRM. This would provide the
‘opportunity 10 discuss their furure travel plans in more detall and explore what additional products and services may be of
Interest to them, such as Multi Currency Travel Money Card and a forward currency order for any fuure travel plans.

= Stick Approval Ne: FSR 611/17
POLY Approval No: 519/17 - Review Dare: 20/3/18

0S-#3642108-v1 80
POL00448054
POL00448054

‘Travel Insurance Distance Learning Pack

Talking about Post Office Money
Travel Insurance

Below is an example of an introductory conversation and provides you with guidance on how to structure the
conversation.

Every time a customer asks to purchase travel insurance, travel money or for any travel related enquiry.

v Yes v No
‘Our Travel Insurance will cost EXX for
you and any children under the age of 18,
ase aceon A Single-Trip policy will cost you £XX.

Would you ike ‘ ‘Would you like to go ahead with that today?
‘or i can arrange that for you now?

Please remember: You will have more success closing the sales if you talk about features and benefits relating to each
Individual customer, after building the need go straight In and ask your customer if they want to go ahead now so they are
covered immediately, rather than encourage them to leave with a quote.

° FSRisk approval number: FSR 651/17

0S-#3642108-v1 81
POL00448054
POL00448054

Telephony

0S-#3642108-v1 82
POL00448054
POL00448054

‘Broadband & Phone Distance Learning Pack

How can we introduce Post Office
Broadband & Phone?

Linked toa bill payment transaction Linked to a mals transaction eg priority

Customer is interested

Customer Relationship Manager/Product No Custome Relationship Manages/Product Customer is interested but currently in 8
Champion available ‘Champion available contact

‘ + +

If your Product Champion/Customer Relationship Manager Is not available, remember you can book an appointment if the
customer would like to talk to someone.

is ‘Approval No: 0058/17

0S-#3642108-v1 83
Financial
Services

(OS-#3642108-v1
POL00448054
POL00448054

(Car 6 Home insurance Distance Learning Pack

How can we introduce car/home insurance?

Linked to a transaction: Linked toa method of payment:

‘This is an example of an introductory product conversation and provides you with guidance on how to structure the
‘conversation so that Its linked to a customer transaction or payment type.

0S-#3642108-v1 85
POL00448054
POL00448054

arene
Talk about savings
eee ae fotacat

Debit or Credit Card

lean see you bank Mr/Mrs/Miss XXX

sper meg aero cmieis Mr/Mrs/ Miss XXX

do you have your all customers about
savings with? our competitive

do you like to use
your Post Office

Mr/Mrs/Miss card account for

XXX has anyone IF YES OR NO, SAY: savings accounts, SSF

has anyone spoken
spoken to you about We have a range of papa 2 We have a range of

‘our competitive
savings accounts? patie tbanpen them recently? oe a fet
eer VES: information and you
: ee aes can decide which are

can decide which reat, what ——

are of most interest. think of them:

Depending on customer's interest, choose one of the following as appropriate:

‘Yes- Customer I Yer-NoCustomer
v Relationship Manager/_ Relationship Manager / If the customer
‘Tablet User available Tablet User available isnot imerested,

‘What I can dois if your happy to

proceed take some details andwe can
Let me introduce you toXXXX. They you an email which will contai OK. i in
will be happy to tell you about our information on the products you are the Future, pleaze bear
ssnvings range and how you can apply. interested in. wewill be in contact ‘usin mind.

with you with detais of how you can

apply. Let me knaw how you geton.

v

Atthe product selection screen, ask: So
‘Tm going to get your details for savings,
‘would you lke me to pop in XXXX
(eg: Credit Card) atthe same time?

Pemamder: You must provide 2 “summary box leaflet’ to any customer you give an application pack to. There Is no
requirement 10 explain the document but you should allow the customer time to read the information. if the customer asks
about the leafles, explain that It contains important information as well as the latest rates.

You can only provide information for savings product/s. Advice must not be glven/offered as customers need ro decide for
themselves which producu/s Is appropriate for thelr needs.

If your branch has a Customer Relationship Manager, you must refer interested customers to them as they can talk 10 the
customer 10 understand thelr needs and then introduce relevant products to them.

0S-#3642108-v1 86
POL00448054
POL00448054

(Crodie Cards Distance Learning Pack

How can we introduce credit cards?

Linked to a travel transaction: Linked toa method of payment:

This is an example of an introductory product conversation and provides you with guidance on how to structure the
‘conversation so thar It's linked to a customer transacuion or payment type.

0S-#3642108-v1 87
Sisk Approval Number: FSR710/17 Pos Office Money Prosection Range Distance Learning Pack

Introducing Post Office Money Free Parent
Life Cover to customers with infants

‘Customer

Not Inverested ieee
‘We can offer you £15,000 free life cover and this will ast for 12
months and can be taken any time up to your child's fourth birthday.
a ‘There are some basic eligibitiy crerla (show details on leaflet: that
peat ‘you will need to check before you contact our customer services
Pokey eacletoaely ‘team to arrange your cover. £15,000 is a great start, but many.

customers feel they would like to have more cover in place for

longer, and they will be able to discuss that with you when you call.

A great Customer experience

Families who have suffered tragedies and been lefx with
terrible financtal difficulties would, wich the benefit of
hindsight, have preferred to have had sufficient life cover in
place to enable them to maintain their lifestyle and be able
to deal with the process of grieving without the pressure of
financial worries.

Incroducing life cover to our customers In the right way
gWVes them the option of thinking about what cover they
have, if any. and to really think about how difficult life could
be for the person left behind, but more importantly, to do
something about it

‘Anenaire famity can end up with financial security just
because of a conversation that started with you, In your
Post Office.

Good luck in growing your sales

‘We know queves can build up at peak times; therefore we
must be efficient when holding conversations with
‘customers. I's critical that we focus on managing the queve
effectively and to the best of our ability. This includes taking
‘a.common sense approach when promoung products

and services; in other words when there are a large number
cof customers walting to be served, our priority ts minimising
their waiting time.

Review date: 18/04/2017

0S-#3642108-v1 88

POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054

Post Office Money Promction Range Distance Learning Pack FSRtck Approval Number: FSR7I0/17

How can we introduce protection
to our customers?

Linked to transaction when
‘customer uses a Debit or Credit Card Linked to customer

Depending on customer's response, choose one of the following as appropriate:

Siar Imerested and Customer Inverested and no Customer
Notimersed ‘U Relatlonship Manager/ 4) Relationship Manages/
Morugage Specialist avallable Mortgage Spectallst avallable

OK. ‘Lecme introduce you wo XXX Use Protection and Pre-Paid Funeral Pian

you are ‘our Customer Relationship brochure at this stage to allow the customer
tmvescedn I Manager / Morigaga Specials, ‘to make a fully Informed decision.
the fuwre, ‘they will be happy to provide “"Here are the options avallable from us. You can see there
please bear you with more Information and are four different options avatlable. Can you please take a
‘usin mind. tell you how you can apply. ook and lec me know which of these are of interest to you”

dj, ineeemee
How else can you help capture customer
leads?
If a customer would rather not speak to a Customer
Relationship Manage:/Martgage Specialist then the
next step would be to capture the customer's derals
‘on Horzon Online.
After capturing the customer's details around the
product or products they've expressed an interest In,
the customer has the option to be contacted about
‘other Post Office products and services.
What else can you do...?
If the customer Is interested in one of our products/
services but does notwish to leave ther deralts or
‘speak to a Customer Relationship Manager/Mortgage
Specialist you can:

‘Provide the customer with product leafiers Ls Giana
Inform the customer on how they can apply
- Online
~ By phone

8 Review date: 18/04/2017

0S-#3642108-v1 89
OS-#3642108-v1

FSiask Approval Number: FSR 710/17

Post Office Money Promcrion Range Destarce Leaming Pact

Introducing Post Office Money Free Parent
Life Cover to customers with infants

‘Customer
Not Interested

Y tncerested

‘We can offer you £15,000 free life cover and this will Last for 12

(OK. if your circumstances
‘change or you feel you
‘want more cover,
please bear us in mind.

‘months and can be taken any tume up to your child's fourth birthday.
There are some basic eligibitity crnerta (show details on leafiey); that
you will need to check before you contact our customer services
‘team to arrange your cover. £15,000 is a great start, but many

customers feel they would like

more cover in place for

longer, and they will be able to discuss that with you when you call.

A great Customer experience

Families who have suffered tragedies and been left with
terrible financial difficulties would, with the benefit of
hindsight, have preferred to have had sufficient life cover in
place to enable them to maintain their lifestyle and be able
to deal with the process of grieving without the pressure of
financial worries.

Introducing life cover to our customers in the right way
{21Ves them the opdion of thinking about what cover they
have, if any, and to really think about how difficult life could
be for the person left behind, but more importantly, to do
something about i.

‘An enaire famity can end up wrth financial security just
because of a conversation that started with you, in your
Post Office.

Good luck in growing your sales

We know queues can butld up at peak times; therefore we
must be efficient when holding conversations with
customers. I's critical that we focus on managing the queve
‘effectively and to the best of our ability. This includes taking
a. common sense approach when promoting products

and services; in other words when there are a large number
of customers waiting to be served, our priority is minimising,
thetr watting ume.

Review dave: 18/04/2017

90

POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054
POL00448054

Introduction
Summary

Annex A
General Requirements

Annex B
Accommodation Specification

Annex C
Operational Specification

Annex D
Local Unit Specification (design Mock up)

Annex E

Withdrawal of Mailwork

Withdrawal Process Map and Concurrence form
Withdrawal Compensation scheme

Annex F
Adjustment of staffing establishment
Changes (increase/decrease) process Map

Annex G
Crisis Management Plan (Design Mock Up)

OS-#3642108-v1 91
