POL00105041
POLO00105041

Action Points

Date: 20"/ 21" March 2013

Location: 148 Old St

Attendee: Andrew Daley Andy Hayward
Rob King Keith Gilchrist Security Operations Lead Team
Helen Dickinson Darrell Kennedy Mooting

Dave Posnett

Number: I Action: Lead:

1 Invite Tony Newman to upcoming SOLT meeting (May, June or July) in respact of credit check developments. Wii I Dave Posnett

be June or July... once we know meeting datesivenues

2 Circulate the 15 Security priorities/programmes to members of the Sec Ops Lead Team. Done ~ cascaded to Rob King
tear
3 Ascertain current workloads of the team and bring to the table at each SOLT mesting (including any sensitive All
cases/pressures),
4 Set up a policy for rewards in conjunction with police and Crimestoppers. Rob to decide how to progress. Tobe I Keith Gilchrist / Rob King

Included as agenda fem for SOLT meeting of 18" May,

5 Brief John Scott on Security Operations training proposals (Including recent delivery and future aspirations/plans). I Dave Posnett

Done ~ proposals okay but need to capture other data; categories ‘or attendees (job requirement, H&S, retreshe

. cerificates (detailing hours of zraining, who delivered, what content was). Also to note that HR hold

and we have to justly tralning (e.g. more punchy/mandatory type titles)

6 Liaise with John Scott re an invite to upcoming Sec Ops Lead Team meeting (May, June or July). Compieted Andy Hayward

7 Email all Security Managers, requesting they feed back any Ideas re Security, Compliance & Safety operations Sharron Jennings

(Stripe) for 2013/2014. Done ~ article in &

sity weekiy bulletin issue 18,

8 Ensure that Paragon routes in high risk and/or hot spot areas are continuously varied. Done Keith Gilchrist / Darrell
Kennedy
9 invite Mike Stanway to upcoming SOLT meeting (May, June or July) in respect of Programme of activities re Dave Posnett

network robbery. Will be June or July ... once we know meeting datesvenues.

10 Email the previous Burglary Project Initiation Document to Darrel for Ashilies’ use in completing for 2013/2014. Helen Dickinson
Cone
" Liaise with Andrew Wise to ensure one Security Sharepoint site Is in use and accessible by persons of relevance. I Dave Posnett

Done — emailed both # both sites arid asked Andrew to ‘establish which one is relevant and check

Sec Ops have access to the one of relevance:

12 Liaise with SLT and establish which Security Strand will own Fraud Risk Programmes for 2013/2014. Done Rob King

Commercial Security to own Fraud Risk, Sec Ops to ownlassist in delivery of programmes,

wwpostoffice.co.uk
POL00105041
POLO00105041

‘Speak to Claire re Crown Losses programme - to ascertain/agree proposals for 2013/2014, including Sec Ops

Involvement. Done ~ t'm now on the ‘Crown Loss Board! ank frst hand knowledge of proposals involving

Sec Ops (e.g. security reviews, complianes checks, et 10 be fed into SOLT for concurrence before

committing to Sse Ops involvement,

Dave Posnett

Establish whether CIT Dynamic risk assessment training is relevant / fit for purpose ‘or all Security Managers and

‘facilitate attendance if applicable.

Ine - Course was pilot run and deemed relevant and appropriate for wider

secur that we can latch onto

‘ops tearr roll out... awaiting confirmation from Supply Chain re further coursé

(ir98 of charge}

Helen Dickinson

Prepare and deliver presentation on G8 summit in NI to John, Rob and Andy on 22" April. Done » SLT fully

brieted

ongolt

g updates trom police will be provided, next update cue 28” May.

Keith Gilchrist,

Liaise with Grapevine Analyst Team re additional attention to be paid to the 70 crowns earmarked for conversion

(increased risk of losses) and Claire have already putin place systems to moniter,

Helen Dickinson

