POL00039944
POL00039944

POST OFFICE DETECTIVE STAFF MANUAL. Appendix 17

Post Office Investigation and Prosecution Policy

Introduction

Reporting offences

Crimes by employees

Interface with police and other agencies

Further information.

Introduction

The Post Office’s business and reputation depend on the integrity of its employees and its procedures. It has rules and
processes designed to enable it to meet its obligations to protect the items and resources entrusted to it, and where crimes or
suspected crimes are committed against these, its policy is to investigate them and take appropriate action.

Reporting offences

Crimes or suspected crimes against the following must be reported to The Post Office Security and Investigation Services
or the appropriate Post Office Business Security and Investigation Unit for investigation or liaison with the police:

. The Post Office's property, cash and revenue;

. its employees in the course of business;

. mail in course of transmission by post;

. customers whilst their transaction documents are in the custody or control of The Post Office e.g. pension and

allowance books, TV licences;

. organisations or individuals by misuse of Post Office services e.g. fraudulent mail redirection, a PO Box used for
an unlawful purpose.

The relevant procedures may be found in the Service Level Agreements and Policy Statements agreed between POSIS and
constituent businesses of The Post Office.

Crimes by employees

The Post Office’s policy is normally to prosecute those of its employees or agents who commit acts of dishonesty against
the Post Office for the purpose of illegally acquiring Post Office property or assets, or the property or assets of Post Office
customers and clients while in Post Office custody, where this is deemed to serve the public interest. Other wrongdoing will
normally be dealt with via the discipline code. The prosecution guidelines of the business will be used in making any
decision to proceed under criminal law, following advice from Legal Services, Criminal Law Division, where appropriate.

ISSUE APRIL 1999 ©COPYRIGHT RESERVED PAGE I
FOR SECURITY & INVESTIGATION STAFF ONLY ISSUE 2
POL00039944
POL00039944

POST OFFICE DETECTIVE STAFF MANUAL. Appendix 17

The Post Office has a right to expect the highest standards of integrity from its employees, and employees have a duty to
report to The Post Office if they have been:-

° charged by police or summonsed in connection with a criminal offence
. formally cautioned by police (as an alternative to prosecution)
. convicted of any criminal offence.

Each case will be dealt with on merit and action taken (if any) will be in accordance with the disciplinary code of the
business.

Crimes committed by persons who are not employed by the Post Office

The policy on investigation and prosecution of criminal offences committed by persons who are not employees or agents of
the Post Office is currently being revised but in principle follows that set out for employees.

Interface with police and other agencies

POSIS is the main Post Office interface with the Police and other detective agencies, including HM Customs, Interpol,
Benefits Agency and the security departments of foreign postal administrations etc. Royal Mail and Post Office Counters
Ltd. maintain their own self-supporting security and investigation units who deal locally at regional and divisional level
with police and other law enforcement agencies with regard to specific security and investigation questions or enquiries

Further information

For more detailed information please contact:-

Alan Baxter

POSIS

49 Featherstone Street

London ECLYSSY....senenene=
Tel; I GRO i

ISSUE APRIL 1999 ©COPYRIGHT RESERVED PAGE 2
FOR SECURITY & INVESTIGATION STAFF ONLY ISSUE 2
