POL00139728
POL00139728

Regular Call re Horizon Issues

Meeting: 28/08/13
Attendees:

Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Attendees

Rodric Williams (RW)
Martin Smith (MS)
Andrew Parsons (AP)
Rebecca Butler (RB)
Jarnail Singh (JS1)

Andy Winn (AW)

Rob King (RK)
John Scott (JS2)

Sophie Bialaszewski (SB)

Network Gayle A Peacock (GP)
Nick Beal (NB)
Information Technology & Change (IT&C) N/A
Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) N/A
Action Points from 21 August 2013

1 The minutes of the meeting were circulated by AP in advance of this week's telephone
conference.
2 A telephone conference took place between AP, the Security team and JS1 Singh re
action point list. Confirming that Matrix drafted.
3 SB2 copying JS1 and RW into all emails regarding new MP cases, reporting and

relaying information regarding queries by MP's to Rosie Gaisford (RG) of Bond Dickinson. SB2
is also liaising with RG on any new cases that arise.

4 JS1 and MS discussed what further information is needed on Wincor ATM theft issues.
MS currently trying to establish what existing/past cases have been covered. MS liaising with
Helen Dickinson (HD) and making further enquiries.

RK stating that Wincor can provide details of all sites and that they are currently cross
referencing this with all investigations. MS/RK to update on this.

JS2 stating that Security having a meeting with the police this week. Police taking an interest as
it appears to be an industry wide problem - £250K.

5 Rhigos branch — GP updating, £24K cost to which Angela is investigating further under
the case review. GP suggesting to RW to put in mediation as SPM refusing to interview. RW
agreeing.

6 E-top up issues — AW still investigating and stating that recovery document going out
(which had already been planned) with suggested wording to cover the scenario. AW still
uncomfortable with this.

GP stating to hang fire, need to discuss steps of top-up where there is a communication failure;
it is unclear what should happen. Need a clear answer form Fujitsu before recovery document
sent.

JS2 - asking for clarification on the issue and whether there was any impact on prosecution
cases. GP - noting that issues are conflicting advice around error messages and that we should

4A_27354544_1 1
POL00139728
POL00139728

be clear internally before updating as it has a financial impact on branch. Example provided: If
customer asks for £10 top-up and the transaction is initially declined, the SPM would process
again. When SPM goes to settle the 2° completed top-up and connection is lost, Horizon
recovers the first failed top up. Post recovery it should account for two top-ups but only accounts.
for one.

AW has never come across this before — very rare/ requires extraordinary circumstances.

MS noting that could have impact on prosecution - important that this is flagged up to address —
con calls do this.

GP/AW/ RW to discuss offline as too technical over conference. GP to liaise with Steve Beddoe
(SB1) and SB1 to lead on this matter.

7 Process for communicating between teams when a prosecution is withdrawn — JS1 to
copy Communications team into decision making process. Where there is anything of concern
Network & Security team are to be copied in and the Communications team will get a summary.
Agreed Public Affairs will also be copied into to any correspondence as aware MP now involved.
JS1 will formalise the process for communication with Communications team.

NB — Conscious not covering enough people in Network team and that we should also keep
Contracts team up to date. NB to call JS1 to discuss further.

8 Bureau de Change — JS2 to chase up with Steve Beddoe after call.
GP — Fujitsu meeting on 9" September. If Steve unable to make conference call next week, GP

to update on behalf of SB1.

Action Log

RK proceeded to continue with the Action Log in numerical order:

Issue Issues/Comments/Next steps
Prestbury GP to speak to Steve.
Howden GP going to update today. Agreed to treat as closed

Printing Error

AW to discuss with RK and email him today. Agreed to treat as
closed.

Torch Visit GP to assist chase Steve. Steve to update RK this afternoon.
Bureau Buy Raised by GP, cause was user error rather than Horizon. Agreed
Back to treat as closed.

ATM Gluing MS noting sentencing coming up but had requested to put on hold
Case for a month. Look into ATM visitor book to inspect which

engineers looked at the ATM and when. Agreed to keep open.

Withdrawal of
prosecution

JS1 to finalise and check who to copy in to communications.

Rhigos Branch

Agreed to up update log according to discussion detailed above.

E-top up

As discussed above.

4A_27354544_1
POL00139728
POL00139728

New Issues

Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments
John Scott (JS2) I Security No new issues.

Rob King (RK) Security No new issues.

Andy Winn (AW) I FSC No new issues.

Steve Beddoe IT No new issues.

(SB1)

Nick Beal (NB) Network No new issues

Gayle Peacock
(GP)

Sophie
Bialaszewski
(SB2)

Communication
s

No new issues.

Jarnail Singh
(JS1) / Martin
‘Smith (MS)

Legal

No new issues.

Rodric Williams
(RW)

Legal

1. Horizon Integrity related - Fujitsu want to migrate
transaction data to new servers. Initially thought
transaction data untouchable, but not. There are risks of
data corruption/loss of integrity with transaction data
migration. Fujitsu are currently working a new proposal
for this and Dave King (DK) investigating criminal
prosecutions/ civil recovery. IT to re-scope and get risk
analysis on this. If data needs to be migrated —- need
someone to independently audit process. No time limit but
Fujitsu want to get things moving as soon as possible.
RW noting that timing unfortunate and that Fujitsu were
currently working on risks/benefits for POL. JS2
concluding: NOT AN ACTION FOR THIS GROUP.

2. ATM Issue — Affects branch balancing. New routers in
ATM in Jan — issues with withdrawals not being captured.
Currently in touch with 50 branches to see if any branch
issues. Product team are to investigate further. RW to
email GP on this issue - NEW HORIZON ACTION.

Andrew Parsons
(AP) / Rebecca
Butler (RB)

Legal

No new issues.

4A_27354544_1
POL00139728
POL00139728

Action Points

1 Wincor / ATM - MS/RK to update on position regarding Wincor records of ATM engineer visits.
MS to look into ATM visitor book to determine which engineers looked at ATM and when.

2 E-top up issues - GP, AW and RW to discuss offline issues relating to recovery document. GP
to liaise with Steve Beddoe for update on FJ view on this issue.

3 Communicating prosecution withdrawals - NB to call JS1 to discuss formalising process of
communication regarding prosecution withdrawals. JS1 to formalise process of communication
regarding prosecution withdrawal with Communications team.

4 Bureau de Change - JS2 to chase Steve Beddoe after conference call regarding Bureau de
Change. If Steve unable to make conference call next week, GP to update on Steve's behalf.

ACTION LOG ISSUE 1: GP to speak to Steve today regarding Prestbury.
ACTION LOG ISSUE 2: GP to update group regarding Howden.

ACTION LOG ISSUE 4: GP to speak to Steve today regarding the Torch visit an update RK this
afternoon.

8 New routers for ATMs issue - RW to email GP regarding new Horizon Issue and to
investigate further.

4A_27354544_1 4
