POL00105032
POL00105032

One to One Meeting Record

Name: Simon Hutchinson
Line Manager: Kevin Ryan

Date of meeting: 28" June 2013

One to One period covered: I 30/05/2013 to 38/06/2013

Celebrate key activities/Understand priorities/Imagine what you need to deliver activities

© Celebrate:
- Success of the G8 Summit passing off without incident

- Success of the Security Events

© Understand:
- Both understand and accept the value of prioritising work loads, particularly when matters concer the health & safety of staff and customers

may become an issue.

© Imagine

- The need to deliver up to date assessments to risk as this could have a detrimental impact to the safety of both human resources and assets.

Priorities this month —
1. Revision of Taskforce NI Risk Assessments with Kings Security Systems re potential increase in threat towards Task Force NI

Preparing the last Security Event at the Hilton Hotel, Templepatrick
Continued investigation of potential criminality at Bessbrook and Craigavon Post Offices
Meeting with PSNI to progress the effectiveness on ANPR and to utilise ANPR as a crime prevention tool for CViT

Move forward with iBox Tracking for POL NI along with POL Physical Security

ook ON

Increase Torch visit in line with POL Sec policy

7. Ongoing liaison with POL Sec NI Solicitor re completion and submission of prosecution files

How you demonstrate our Directorate Behaviours — Care, Challenge, Commit

Increase Torch Visits: Visits completed within target time.

Technical Skills Workstream: During a recent face to face Workstream meeting at Manchester (24.6.13) we revised our terms of reference. We believe
we have captured new and up to date issues and will deliver a Questionnaire to POL Security soon.

POL NI Security Events: Presented Tiger Kidnap security advice to SPM and staff at two events, Portadown and Belfast.

5°5°5 Intelligence Training: I have delivered 5*5*6 intelligence gathering training to Grapevine staff at Bradford, Kings Security

Organised Task Force NI; Attended the launch of the NI Org Crime Task Force Annual Report with the Ni Justice Minister and PSNI Chief Constable as,
key note speakers.

Investigation Training: Attended crime investigation training at Cartwright King Birmingham with emphasis on significant statements by SPM at time of
audits

G8 Security; Organised the security of POL CVIT and PO branches in Ni during the G8 event and associated demonstrations.

National Network Meeting: Supported POL Physical Security Manager at a National Network senior managers meeting in Belfast re network

transformation security issues.

NFSP Meeting Belfast: Meeting with NI reps of the National Federation for Sub Postmasters to discuss issues around network transformation and

121 *Name* *Date* 1
POL00105032
POL00105032

physical security issues.

POL Sec Development Centre: Attended the first POL Sec development centre at Hinkley under the management of Dave Wood with encouraging and
positive feedback from assessors.

Portrush PO Security Visit: Security visit to Portrush PO at the request from the SPM after her attendance of our security event at Ballymena a few days
before. Security advice supplied re protection of presises.

NI POL Solicitor: Meeting with Mr Emie Waterworth, new POL NI Solicitor, to progress our investigation and prosecution issues.

Security Conference: Attended two day POL Security Conference in London.

Progress against objectives Next milestone

On target - Completion of the last Security Event at the
Hilton Hotel, Templepatrick

- PSNI ANPR crime prevention tool for CViT
agreed

- Agreed iBox Tracking for POL NI between POL
Physical Security and supply company

- Confirmation of Taskforce NI Risk Assessments

revision
Areas for development/Support Activity Plan Progress
required/Time management

Continued support required from PSNI and POL re - Security Event On Target
Security Events -  iBox Tracking

- Progress ANPR with PNSI
Revision Taskforce Risk

Assessment

Action Points and Line Managers comments

Simon to liaise with Kings re Task Force Risk Assessment Revision

Simon to progress ANPR issue with PSNI Crime Prevention Lead

Simon to “buddy” up with one Crown and one Sub Office

Fraud case update; (cases causing issues delays etc).

C:\Documents and
Settings\simon. i. hutc!

Individuals comments

Thanks to Suzanne for her continued support and mentoring.

121 *Name* *Date* 2
POL00105032
POL00105032

Thanks to security event Network helpers.

121 *Name* *Date*
