POL00110193
POLO00110193

MO51_APP
Application Form
For Second Sight use only
Case ref:
Your Details
Surname: Forenames:
Rudkin (Ernest) Michael & Susan Jane

Your address: The Post House — 120 High Street — Ibstock - Leicestershire

Postcode: LE67 6LJ

Telephone number 1:: H Email address:
Telephone number 2: G RO I michaelrudkinI GRO}

My current Member of Parliament is:
Mr Andrew Bridgen MP

Your Branch

Please insert the details of the branch where you worked. If you worked at more than one branch,
please provide details on an extra sheet of paper.

Name of branch: Ibstock SPDO FAD Code of branch: 223 217 0

Address of branch: 118 High Street — Ibstock - Leicestershire

Postcode: LE67 6LJ

Your role at the branch (ie. Subpostmaster, Subpostmistress, clerk, etc.): Sub-Postmaster

When did you begin in this role? Are you still in this role?
O YES
1995 MNO

If no, when did you leave this role: December 2010

POL00110193
POLO00110193

Initial Case Overview

To the best of your knowledge, is your case (or any part of it) currently subject to any on-going criminal
investigations or proceedings (including the issue of a summons, sentencing hearings or a confiscation
order)?

O YES - you may still submit your case, but Second Sight may not be able investigate it whilst criminal
investigations or proceedings are on-going.

MNO

The purpose of the ‘Initial Case Overview’ is to summarise the main issues you wish Second Sight to
consider. If your case is accepted for mediation, you will then have an opportunity to supply much more
detail together with supporting evidence.

The following Key Questions may help you with this Initial Case Overview but please feel free to supply
any information that you consider may help explain your complaint.

What is the main issue or issues you wish us to consider that relate to Horizon or its associated
processes?

Aug 2008, my visit to Bracknell and the practices I witnessed. The morning after I was suspended from
my position as SPMR. It was alleged my PO branch would show a discrepancy of £44 k (Shortage) and
after an audit by Paul Fields it was proven a substantial shortage existed. I was also informed by the
auditor I was spending too much time on NFSP business as an EO. My Officer in Charge (Wife) and I
have reported errors and faults over a ten year period both with Horizon and POL's procedures.
Evidence to support these claims can be provided at a later date if required.

When did the incidents relating to the main issue or issues occur?

Major problem began to occur 2008/2009/2010.

What prior contact have you had with the Post Office in regard to the incidents/issues that you are now
reporting?

In my formative years as a SPMR, having been SPMR at a number of branches, I have reported
numerous issues such as; Ghosting transactions, Logging on errors, remote access, shortages,
remittance errors, remittance theft by CITV drivers, poor support from the helpline, even wrong
information from the helpline etc. POL’s response is more often than not, make good the losses or you
could lose your SPMR's contract. On balance the SPMR's capital asset, plus the PO revenue and the
retail income; one cannot disobey POL’s instructions.

How was the issue or issues resolved at the time they occurred?

Aug 2008 I was suspended without pay (£21k loss + retail income). Having been reassured I would be
reinstated by a Contracts Manager I took back my PO branch in November 2008. With the consent of
POL I also commenced a re-payment plan of £1k per month from PO remuneration. During 13 months of
the re-payment plan my wife and I received civil court proceedings for the £44k and confiscations orders
against all our home/properties, using the Proceeds of Crime Act. January 2010 George Thomson asked
me to return as an EO of the NFSP but I was suspended (29/01/10) once more and had my SPMR
contract terminated after May 2010 for an alleged shortage of £6k but on completion of the audit the loss
to POL was £232.17. Before the auditor left a further £225 in stock was located and the auditor asked if I
was happy for the audit to stand at £232.17 as he would have to make alteration to include the philatelic
stock. I said it would be OK!!

POL00110193
POLO00110193

What is the monetary value of the issue or issues you are now reporting?

Suspension 2008, £21k — Suspension 2010, £82k — Repaid POL, £45k — Loss of property £275k — Legal
Fees, £4k — Loss of retail income £175,000, 2008-13 — PO remuneration 2010-13 £267k - Life cover,
£100k — Mortgage arrears £150k — Sub Total £1,119,000.00

Were you the subject of either civil recovery action or criminal prosecution regarding the main issue or
issues you are now reporting?

I, as SPMR was not subject to criminal or civil proceedings as POL recognised I was an Executive
Officer of the NFSP and working mostly on POL business in London. However at a later date my wife
was subjected to civil proceedings which resulted in a prosecution for false accounting. Furthermore my
wife and I were subjected to a confiscation order and our bank accounts temporarily frozen.

How were these actions against you (if any) resolved?

Eventually our bank accounts were unfrozen and the confiscation order modified to allow the sale of a
property that stands within our curtilage. This property is referred to as the Coach House and was sold
for £44k so as to prevent my wife from going to prison, it's true market value is £275k.

What is your explanation for the events forming the main issue or issues you are now reporting?

My wife and I joined the PO in 1995 and have had an exemplary career even winning awards. My wife
has been my Officer in Charge and has over the years been commended by audits for the excellent work
she has undertaken. In more recent times Horizon has become defective and POL’s procedures have
become ineffective. I also believe my position within the NFSP has made me the subject of prejudicial
activities by some in POL.

Did you request assistance from the Post Office regarding the issue or issues you are now reporting?

I have sort assistance from the highest level within POL, the NFSP and I have correspondence that
confirms this. It is imperative that the courts verdict against my wife is expunged and we are reimbursed
for the enforced financial losses we have sustained to-date. Furthermore I want reinstatement as a
Magistrate as I had to resign so as not to bring the Magistrates onto disrepute because of all of the
above

What assistance if any was provided?

No intercession was offered from the former MD of POL just a letter wishing me well.

The General Secretary of the NFSP allegedly made some representations to POL but informed me POL.
was going to make an example of me. He allegedly even made a £1k bet with the EO taking my appeal
that I would not get back in office.

Regional Contracts Manager Paul Williams and his boss John Breeden (Contracts Manager North) were
helpful in the opening months but then distanced themselves and the legal teams took over.

Supporting evidence can be provided to all the above.

Please attach additional sheets of paper if you require more space.

POL00110193

POL00110193

Declaration
I acknowledge that:
° As part of the Scheme, I must promptly provide information about my case to Second Sight. If I

do not provide full information in a timely manner, I accept that it may not be possible to

investigate or mediate my case.
° Information I provide about my case or the findings of Second Sight's investigation may help

reach a resolution with Post Office but that it may also reveal further claims against me.
° 1am only entitled to financial support from Post Office if I have signed a Funding Agreement.

I confirm that:
. My case relates to the Horizon system or an associated issue.

. Post Office may communicate details of my case to Second Sight, JFSA, my Member of
Parliament and/or its professional advisors.

° The facts and matters set out in this Application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge and belief.

I confirm that I am:

O Currently serving as a Subpostmaster and have already raised my case with Post Office and have
completed all Post Office's internal complaint processes.

Not currently serving as a Subpostmaster.
(Please tick one box)

If you are unable to give all the above acknowledgements and confirmations, your case may not be
eligible for the Scheme. In that circumstance, please contact the JFSA for assistance.

This Application Form and your involvement in the Scheme do not create any legally binding contract or
obligations between Post Office and you.

The Working Group, its members and their advisors owe no obligations or duties, and accept no liability,
to you in connection with the Scheme.

Signed

Mr Ernest Michael Rudkin
Name wees

3" September 2013
Date ;

