Internal Stakeholder Feedback
Appendix A

POL00033610

POL00033610

a

.

Bob Collins’ Team I Network Field Support PTC Lose cash check at PTV, the office will be audited with in the first 9 months
>
Dave Ogleby S I Network Field Support I Classroom Sales Session - Too long a session , delegates don’t like it and don't participate,
David Patrick’s I don’t think the current procedures are relevant when the branch transfers from
Team Network Field Support I PTC one nominee to another and the staff remain in place. Much of the one month
and three month contact questions simply do not apply.
Classroom 8 days - Too much to cover in the 8 days, but the new delegates do struggle to
take all on board with the timetable sessions
Julia Mann’s " 46 Cash Management - Relevant only to Sub Postmasters. Can be covered much
Team Network Field Support Classroom better on site.
Classroom 30 Giro Practical - Can be covered better in daily revision
Classroom 6 Credit Card - We can only refer to the leaflet
59&60 NS&l - Losing the work, premium bonds can be incorpoated into PO
Classroom -
Savings, which I shall comment on later
Classroom 12 pt2 Perfect Branch - See no benefit to this exercise
Ready To serve - This is something the Subby may do for a couple of days and
On Site then it’s just going to be forgotten about.
Maybe it should be a ‘once a week’ task, just like checking scales is, and not
every day.
5 >
Chris Fayers Network Field Support Classroom Focus CTC on core products and leave sales until a later date
Spmr’'s feel the sessions are too rushed. Too much info in a short period of time
Classroom A
(Three people commented on this)
PTC Lose the 1 month phonecall. (four people commented on this)
Rita Kendellen’s Network Field Support Classroom Insurance session is far too long. Could be split and use session on Car Tax to

Team

introduce car & bike. Home insurance linked with redirection etc

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

December 2011

1
POL00033610

POL00033610

Classroom

All out of date material being sent to CTO and in prep box.

Classroom

NS&l products from course leave only Premium bonds and INVAC account in
light of recent events

Classroom

Day 5 End of day - no work done?

Classroom

Day 6 Stock balancing session - No stock has been used since last balance

Classroom

Day 8 - Again stock balancing session, only thing to check MVL’s session

PTC

Lose the one month phone call and the PTV at three months and change it toa
PTV at one month and PTA at 6-9 month stage. Generally if a Subpostmaster
is struggling with a particular element it will have raised itself by one month, it is
much easier to sort out problems on site rather than over the telephone, if
additional training/ support is required the Sub may be reluctant to ask for it over
the telephone but on site you can see the issue. It seems daft to me to leave it
until the 3 month visit if the Sub tells you over the telephone that everything is fine
at the one month stage.

PTC

If three elements of PTC are to be maintained then the questions should be less
repetitive. What is the point of asking at one month “are you aware of the Helpline
to assist you” then repeat the question at the PTV and PTA. If know about the
Helpline at the one month stage then they obviously know about at PTV and PTA
so why ask again it just makes us look unprofessional. The questions should only
be repeated if there was gap last time.

Linda
McLaughlin’s
Team

Network Field Support

Classroom

Can we find a compromise, for existing Postmasters who are required to attend
classroom training. There have been several occasions recently, where
postmasters have attended courses.For example Twechar, where the postmaster
had 10 years previous experience, but had taken over the Office from his father.
He only required the conversations, to boost Office sales.

Castlemilk road where the Postmaster had owned and run Burnbank for over two
years, so only required the conversations.

Fortunately the attendance of both Postmasters was not detrimental, or disruptive
to the new trainees, but this could easily be the case in future.

In addition, the above examples could easily produce negative Kendata scores as
a result of attending a course needlessly.

Classroom

Loose notes reference to pouch numbers as there are only two pouches

On Site/PTC

From my experience both are working well, and feedback from the postmasters
has been positive.

Audit Review Internal

December 2011

Stakeholder Feedback

2
POL00033610

POL00033610

Blue Cashcheques transaction especially is now very uncommon and could be
covered on site if necessary this would give more time in class to introduce

Classroom Paystation and stress to the delegates’ how important Paystaion is to the future of
the business rather than spend time on paper based transactions that we as a
business are moving away from.
Chris Gilding’s . The Perfect Branch - The content of the slides is poor and basically is already
Team Network Field Support Classroom covered in the sessions Business Awareness, Customer Service and The Secret.
PSA - daily - A few seconds after each session is all that is needed for trainees
Classroom to enter any comments on their PSA. We also have 1 % hours on the last day to
catch up if necessary.
Handout — The secret assessing conversations - More beneficial is to replace this
Classroom with the ‘Science behind the conversations’ ( to go with the Minimum standard
conversations handouts.)
in’
Frank Martin S I Network Field Support I Classroom 1&4 Intro H&S - Wording on slide e “interesting” about yourself.
18 RM Inland mail - slide 16 unnecessary.
Classroom Slide 17 unnecessary in conversations handout
slide 26 unnecessary
slide 38 as slide 17
Classroom 7pt2 Regulatory Compliance - Slide 22 add to notes instead.
Slide 30 The video (if available) duplicates what has already been trained
Classroom 70/72 International Letters etc. Slide 9 as all others of this type - too confusing on
aslide. Small packet etc lose
Classroom 9 The Secret - 45 Slides!!! This whole session does not work & is unnecessary if
the sales aspect of our transactions are delivered well.
Classroom 47 Etop ups - Slide 18 as before - its on a handout
Classroom 65 Homephone & Broadband - Slide 7 & 11 on handout
Classroom Min service standards9/05 - colours, cant read, coloured blind people cant read.
States on school for blind, red and green unreadable.
Classroom Min standards - Sheet 11, 4th triangle along writing unreadable.
Classroom Reg Compliance - FSA, AML and Mails
Classroom Business Strategy - 3/4 shows values as FACTS

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

December

2011

3
POL00033610
POL00033610

I Classroom

Introduction to horizon 8/1 - Q3 customer has £5

More practical’s to be included in classroom sessions. This would give a better
Bob Collins’ Team _ I Network Field Support I Classroom understanding of their knowledge of transactions and also improve our ability to

complete the filling out of the PSA

EASE Set-up a group to change and test what goes on EASE. People using the system
regularly should control more of what is on it and where it goes.

All I know we use Mondays etc when free to update ourselves, but occasionally
preparation time and keeping up to date should be scheduled.

On Site The staffing levels at some PO Local's. It is impossible to train out back on and all the
sales assistants and keep the branch from being error free.

Classroom The length of time spent on Royal mail sessions. It always takes me twice as long as
the time allotted.
The running order of the classroom course. To me it is totally illogical. What other

Classroom business would tell their new recruits and agents who they were and what they about
after four days?
I've just completed a classroom course and session 28 could do with sorting out —

classroom unless it’s already being looked at. Powerpoint still shows mixed business deposits
and most of the practicals are still for Girobank or A&L Giro.

Dave Ogleby’s : On Is it necessary for a existing Postmaster to attend the classroom training and on-site
Team Network Field Support Site/Classroom training if they have several years experience when applying for a second or third

Office, this seems a waste of resource?

On Site Onsite too short at times - Once the transfer audit is done, the balance is shown ona
Wednesday and a half day Saturday there is not always time to cover topics

On Shorter classroom - Shorter classroom showing the basics, increase onsite so they

Site/Classroom get to know what the office requires and cover less common transactions, at times we
leave them too early and unready

Classroom RM Inland Mail Session - Not enough time scheduled

Classroom Course time - Increase length of course to 9 days. Mails sessions aren't long enough
and not enough practicals
Cash declarations - With regards to the classroom course on the timetable there is no

Classroom mention of end of day reports on some days. As we are to encourage daily cash
declarations enabling good cash management, maybe this should be scheduled on

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

December 2011

4
POL00033610
POL00033610

the timetable especially for those just beginning to deliver the course.

PTV’s are important and add value, but due to the size of the teams now, and their
PTC geographical spread, it’s unrealistic to schedule them to the FTLs. I’ve had some

FSAs complete some for me, and also ran a training session and shadowing for FCAs,
a couple of whom have done some visits for me

This is from a SPMR, via Kendata, and although they're not an internal stakeholder,
thought Id include it anyway: “As the audit and Post transfer visits were conducted on
PTC the same day I was not pre-informed. Had I known I would have made provision for
another member of staff to be present as I happened to be alone on that day and
therefore not an ideal situation. Otherwise the visit went well.”

Knowledge gain test - Can we have a pre and post course test (only 5 minutes
needed?), similar to the one we had on EASE for the old module 2? The test could be
Classroom on all aspects of the PO and classroom course, is given out at the start and the end of
the course, and would give the FSA another indicator for the delegates’ knowledge
gain

Since review my time in the classroom has been limited so I can only judge on a

David Patrick’s couple of days; Timings seem tight to get the course done in 8 days. Long days

Network Field Support I Classroom

Team reduce learning ability. Course being rushed would be worse. Suggest an extra day to

make a 9 day course, which would still be 1 less day than before modular course.

classroom Too much to cover in the 8 days, but the new delegates do struggle to take all on
board with the timetable sessions. Suggest back to 10 days

classroom Day 1- should include Business awareness (sess. 3) due to the history of the Post
Office, business value, retail standards and mystery shopper

classroom Security (45) should also be on day one to highlight importance
Royal Mail 1% & 2"4 Class / Rec Del/Special Delivery (18) The slides from 1-22 are

classroom correct and should follow on with Royal mail 48¢ & 20d which helps the delegate to get
used to using post office labels etc as this would be the first time they would be using
the horizon icons , printer, cash etc.

classroom Recorded Delivery and Special Delivery would be easier to cover on day separately.
To cover all three sessions above in 2.30 is difficult.

classroom Day 2 - add Postage (16) and Cheqs, Deb/Cred (51) card to second day. Follow on
with Post office card account 54 pt 1_and Per/ online Banking 51 pt 3
AS SOON AS ALL SESSIONS ARE CARRIED OUT ON THE DELEGATES OWN

classroom POSITIONS THEN WE SHOULD BE COVERING END OF DAY EVERY DAY to
make the delegates used to routine they will be carrying out in there branches, and not
till day 3 as our current time table.

classroom Day 3 - balancing, if a course starts on a Monday then day 3 should be kept as if they
are in the branch to get the delegates used to Wednesday balancing,

classroom Moneygram (76) should be added into the 5 days as if a delegate is not attending the
full 8 days then it has to be covered by the onsite trainer.

classroom Day 7 — MVLs (66 & 68) All V11 do not show correct prices on HOL screen , We

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback
5

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

should if possible just carry out transaction of 1, PLG , 1 Motorcycle & Pc , The V11
for Disabled does not come up as a zero price so it makes it awkward to show
delegates what to expect. Add in about the break in a tax disc in a slide with regard
to, the customer can purchase it only 2 days before the end of the month, for the new
month or have it starting from the 1st from the month they came which means they
have lost 3 weeks but still have to pay for it to be legally on the road.

Passports (42pt3) -Passport session would be easier if we had the previous example

classroom "
used from previous module
classroom Any scope for mentioning AEI service ?
Transfer day-even if transfer audit is efficient (cash/stock neat/tidy/well presented)-
On Site delays on transfer of deeds/funds due to solicitors/banks can make it a late opening
(or even next day). Can funds/deeds be transferred the day before?
When training on site hours tend to be longer than when auditing so can accrue
quickly. Also time to prepare handouts, /finish audit reports / fill in PSAs /Action Plans
On Site needed,& especially with FUB now a longer activity much longer -. I suggest day after

FUB as an admin day (if a late balance how do you get 11 hours break if an early
audit start required), and a prep day before. If last day on site is a Wednesday, an
audit Thursday AM is again inadvisable.

PTC Amend for Locals — especially for PTV re sales & remuneration

64 PO Savings - Overcomplex with delegates being bombarded with features on all
savings. Let’s use the HOL kit in practical support of products and services ie
Julia Mann’s Team I Network Field Support I Classroom concentrate on instant Saver which can be processed on HOL, and also premium
bonds which again can be processed on HOL. Quick overview showing web site on
our other products.

Practical Revision - Add a 40 min session beginning of all days from day 2 onwards,
covering mailwork, banking, giro, APs etc as course progresses. I get feedback on
every course from delegates saying they want more time using the kit processing
common transactions

Classroom

51pt1,51pt3 & 54pt1 - Merge these three sessions and allocate the time to cover
properly. They all make use of same technology on HOL and can be run well
together. As personal banking cannot be processed on HOL just to give overview only
on these.

Classroom

42pt2 Bureau - Pre order process does not work on HOL so quick overview only
needed. Rem in currency to each SU and concentrate on buy and sell of Euro Dollars
only. Carry on with Travel Money Card as it is. Overview only of travellers cheques
as we cannot process.

Classroom

Insurances - Very brief overview on Insurances and where to access info ie website,

Classroom or Help.

Concentrate on practical ‘Customer Referrals’ exercise using Car Insurance / Home
Classroom insurance. Can't remember if we can completely process Over 50 application on HOL
in classroom. If we can have an exercise on taking application and in depth selling

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

6

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

scenarion using Over 59 Prospectus.

Reversals / Common Problems - Build in a problem solving session separately into
Classroom course covering common errors and how to deal with them ie Adjusting cheques, AP
eversals, Giro Reversals, Spoilt Labels, Reject Labels

HOL Help - Exercise similar to that for COM’s. Use questions that we know will be
Classroom asked in branch eg DVLA VED; stores catalogue; country codes; customs;
prohibitions etc

Timetable / Days Allocated - We can cover the course in how ever many days are

Classroom allocated by cutting the content and quality down.

I believe we need to find what content is actually wanted and needed, write the
sessions and allow adequate time to present them properly ( by time testing the
Classroom sessions ) build in time for revision, make maximum use of the Horizon kit, and
relegating some of the talking sessions to handouts gven before the delegates arrive,
to make use of the kit to maximum effect.

PTC 1-month call - Would be better as a visit

PTC 6-9-month audit - Too much to cover with Audit, Cat questions & PTC questions
Minimum Service Standards (conversations) - No problems with these personally but

On Site most new entrants seem to want to ask the questions in their own way. Then, at later

visits, the correct conversations are rarely heard.

Timetable needs adjusting. Too much information on Day 1. Postage, etc. should be

Classroom on Day 2 with Day 1 covering the admin sessions, Compliance, Securtity, etc.

PTC 1 month call - PTC —A visit is more beneficial on the 1 month PTC. A phone call is
not always convenient to the subpostmaster.

Pre-Training Checklist - Could the following be added to the list — Are all forms and
On Site leaflets the current versions? If not, can you please order the current versions before
the Branch Transfers? (This will aid and encourage new PM to practice conversations)

Only completed one of these as yet, but it felt too soon to be contacting the PM, he

PTC hasn't had a chance to get into the role. I think it would be better to make these calls
at the 2-Month stage.
On Site Ready to Serve - Change to a form that is completed once a week (Monday)

PSA - Retention — how long? Who it’s sent to — Contract Admin Team not branch

Lee Heil’s Team Network Field Support I Classroom support Team

Chris Fayers’ Team I Network Field SupportI PTC. Do Compliance at 3 month PTV then gaps can be picked up at Post Transfer Audit

Classroom Not long enough in classroom.

Not enough practical sessions. More opportunity to put into practice what has been

Classroom learned. (three people commented this way)

PTC Kendata forms do not fit the process as there are times when all we are having is a
chat.(Two people commented on this)

There is not enough information on the Intervention Request form / have found the

Intervention visit unnecessary on arrival. (Two people commented this way)
Classroom Prep boxes have missing handouts/brochures.
Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback
7

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

Day 1 of the counter training course is too busy. To do the Introduction/Horizon/Stock
unit/Postage/All the mails/ Cheques/Postal orders on the first day is too much for them
Classroom to take in. 1 -2°4-recorded delivery-special delivery is too important. The Mails
session needs to be changed to a first session later in the week. (All NFSA’s who
deliver CTC said this)

The Insurance and Moneygram sessions are only available to delegates who do

Classroom Passports/MVL.
Classroom There should be 15 mins each day for delegates to complete their PSA.
Classroom On day 5 the delegates do a balance but there are no transactions to print reports for.

This would be a good day to do a practical session.

Pete Jackson’s
Team

Weekly evaluation at the end of 6 days — take time out from PSA. We feel an

Network Field Support I Classroom evaluation is a better guide to delegates understanding.

PSA needs to be revisited as we feel at the present it does not give a guide to how the

Classroom delegate has performed in the classroom.

Classroom Knowledge quizzes for example — the ones used in module 2 for the financial
products.

Classroom More practical’s, delegates find hands on more beneficial.
Classroom should be made a specialist that is not to say that no one else should ever

Classroom do it. All should be given the opportunity to cover if necessary. We feel it gets watered
down if it is not done for a while, and this is not fair on the delegates.

Classroom Train the trainer? Quality needs to be good, Sub postmasters are investing a lot of

money and poor training also has a knock on effect when it comes to an audit.

Compliance workbooks or learning packs should still be issued as delegates that have
Classroom been on the course have not been able to read up before taking the on line tests, and
have no points of reference afterwards.

Could the sub postmasters be issued with a simplified version of the toolkit that was

Classroom given to WH Smiths managers, we think this would save on interventions.
Classroom Secret slide — far too long, too many slides, mail workshop results slide is not easy to
understand. Made for internal use - BDM’s??
ch Split up the insurances, link them to sessions — example, home insurance linked with
jassroom re :
redirection rather than 3 hours on insurances.
Classroom DDA pack — is it sent to the office or do they just inherit one? Or could they have one
sent to them with the joining instructions so we can cover it in the classroom.
Embed DVD’s into the sessions. Example — mails session dvd session 18. This was
Classroom very advantageous.
Session 18. Revisit the order of the slides, mail segregation and cop are mentioned
Classroom with special delivery and should be in with the first and second class slides, because
neither cop or mail segs applies to special delivery.
Classroom End of day cash declarations should be on the timetable for every day as a minimum.
Classroom Is it possible that post masters that have experience of the counter, and are

competent could sign a disclaimer to exclude them from the classroom, as it is

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

8

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

distracting for new entrants and can also be de-motivating?

Stock balancing is only 2 slides and that is taking about cash management, which has
already been covered in an hour's session. It needs to have more reference to all

Classroom aspects of balancing — for example, TP and BP, net discrepancies’ settling centrally,
transaction corrections and rems.
Inconsistency on slides — some have twirling numbers, some have showering — the
Classroom aoa
format needs to be simplified.
Classroom Any questions at the end, should be build into the last slide. This also tells the trainer

it's the end of the session slides.

Classroom Prep boxes - out of date leaflets included within.

We keep getting experienced Spmr’s on CTC’s and after discussing it with my team
we agree that that they are not a benefit to the course. Not that they are purposely
trying to disrupt or spoil anything. It’s just that we find They get bored listening to what
they already know. Some have had to pay extra wages so they can attend to be told
what they know already. They try to help others which is not always a good thing as
they show them the shortcut’s etc. When they do exercises on Horizon they complete
well before the others and this has a detrimental affect on the others confidence.
Some contradict or tell them “how it should be done, never mind what the Post Office
say's”

Classroom Please don’t think we are being negative, quite the opposite. Our suggestions are that
Have a 2 day course for them where we can concentrate on matters such as branch
standards, compliance, sales, etc. Arrange a training regime that suits them, such as
on site.

1. The trainer assess their capability

2. Helps any member of staff that may need support

3. Concentrate on any specific area the Spmr requests help on

4. Agree with the Spmr what we can do best for his office

5. Agree with the Contracts Advisor this course of action

6. Have a signed pro-forma that the Spmr signs to say he is OK with this process.

Also we think we could look to have a different process on-site for Spmr’s who are not

On Site going to have an active part in the running of the office. If we try to get them to be

behind the counter for the 6 days training this leads to problems.
7 5
Rita Kendellen s Network Field Support I PTC 1 month phone call to six weeks after FUB

Follow up visit sooner to ensure weaknesses’ shown on-site can be corrected sooner

PTC rather than later i.e. ATM, Lottery, Sales, cash management. Possible reduction in
number of interventions required.

Classroom Shut down time needed for course.

Classroom Extra end of day routine needed
Timetable needs looking at, delivery time for sessions needs to be based on actual

Classroom delivery

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

9

December 2011
POL00033610

POL00033610

Classroom Course timetable too tight, Needs to be 9 days split 7 & 2
Classroom No proper evaluation on how delegate has understood or performed during the
Classroom Extend to 7 or 9 days to allow more time for practicals
Classroom More practical materials are needed.
Classroom Mails revert to 1°.2" recorded, special as way of introducing products
Classroom Add handout for spoiling tax disc’s to prep box
Classroom Timetable needs looking at especially if full course and slow learners
Classroom Not enough practical’s

Strange that Insurances are not covered on six day part as these are key to the
Classroom busi

usiness

Classroom Found timetable very restricting, no real time for lengthy questions or lack of

understanding by delegates.

Classroom Mails on first day a bit heavy as not a lot of time given to practicing with HOL.

Business awareness needs to be earlier to ensure delegates know what is at stake for

Classroom them and the business as it is a partnership.
Classroom Moneygramm all officers do why only MVL offices etc get training
Classroom More practical’s needed to make balancing and end of day more realistic
Time needs to be allocated to ensure materials are up to date in CTO long before prep
Classroom day as not enough time to get up to date POPOS especially if OOD material missing
in prep box.
Classroom Add practical sessions to make End of day day5 and Stock balancing day 6 more apt
Classroom Moneygramm to be included in 6 day part of course as ALL offices can do it
Classroom Bureau session needs to be made more appropriate to offices on course especially if
only Pre order/Euro on demand
Ready to Serve Document so that it is completed weekly rather than daily, by the end
On Site of week 1 the Subpostmaster just goes down the list and puts a tick against whatever
was ticked the previous day without reading the question and consequently the form
loses it value.
On Site PSA Alter PSA so if you mark a subject as Red then a comment feeds through to the
action plan (make it the same as the CAT reporting tool).
Would like to see a place where comments can be left by the on site trainer, e.g.
On Subpostmaster generally very good however there was an issue when his paystation
Site/Classroom crashed three times in one day or Subpostmaster had his rubbish stolen whilst I was
on site. This would assist with the PTC process as whoever was completing this
element would have an understanding of any problems the Sub was having.
Visit is extremely useful to get genuine and honest feedback, however it is not best
use of FTL’s time and generates high t&s costs because of the areas covered.
PTC Perhaps they could be scheduled for the FSA and then the FTL to pick up at least 2
per six months for each of their FSA’s to complete to get this feedback on their
performance

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

10

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

Linda McLaughlin’s
Team

Change timetable to flow better — why do we wait until day 4 to tell delegates about

Network Field Support I classroom q
our business

Add more information regarding how a branch works difference between office & stock

classroom -
unit, TPs & BPs, how Horizon accounts for transactions.

Review sessions & slides to ensure relevant and no mistakes (1&4, slide 7, there is no

classroom test — session 7 pt 2, slide 3, Or Branch?)

classroom Add section on Paystation

MoneyGram - Move from Day 8 until sometime in first 6 days as delegates’ who only
classroom attend the first 6 days miss out on a transaction that is now transacted in all branches
and is also a very high income generator.

More time in class needed to practise transactions. Overall I found the class very tight
classroom on time especially for the delegates’ only attending for 6 days .I did have more time
over the last 2 days could all delegates’ not attend for 8 days ?

With the current format we can tell delegates’ How to do something and let them do it
on the horizon terminal. But we cant “Show Then’ in a full classroom could we have a
spare kit in the classroom are more HOL screenshots in the PowerPoint
presentations.

classroom

Introduce the sales model to Sub Pm and coach them how to coach their staff by
On Site using the science behind the conversations. Also how to run focus days and staff
warm ups

Add: Recap/practical - 30 mins daily - Most trainers actually do this at the start of each
day, recapping the previous days’ transactions, which is essential to confirm
understanding and to give confidence to the trainees. Therefore why not make it an
official part of the course.

Chris Gilding’s

Team Network Field Support I classroom

Change: Combine the Cashcheques and DWP sessions which are very similar There

classroom . :
is no need also for 2 separate questionnaires, these could also be combined.

Change: Day 1 is overloaded. Suggest moving Cheque acceptance to day 2 and
Postal Orders to day 4. This will give more scope to very important day 1 which
classroom currently is under too much pressure.( the HOL Help function exercise needs extra
time if we are to achieve our goal of selling it!) (See Timetable embedded on 2nd tab
of Excel Sheet)

Add: Details and Application for Grapevine included in New Agent Welcome Pack. To
On Site raise awareness of the Grapevine service and encourage sign up from all Agents on
appointment

Frank Martin’s

Team Network Field Support I Classroom 184 Intro H&S - "something about yourself.

18 RM Inland mail - Slide 8 untidy.

Classroom Slide 9 too many words, this could be mostly notes

51pt1 CheqDebitCredit Card - General note: Would be good to have a slide to explain

Classroom what we can/can't accept cheques for.

Classroom 37 Postal Orders - Slide 10 not in keeping with other presenations when indicating a

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

11

December 2011
POL00033610

POL00033610

practical is to be done.

Classroom 7pi2 Regulatory Compliance - Slide 4 says "Activity One" but there are no other
‘activity" slides.

Classroom 70/72 International Letters etc. Plain text with 3 headings and list underneath of what
can be enclosed in each. Wings are stupid

Classroom fa service - Better if merged with session 1 Intro, too late in the course by

Classroom 64 Savings - Very wordy slides, could do with a lot of simplification & most of the detail
in the notes.

Classroom 23 RM parcels - Slides 10,11,12 & 13 are repeated over the next three sessions, it’s a
bit repetative & heavy handed

Classroom 43pt1 PFWW Inland - as above

Classroom 43pt2 International Parcels - as above

Classroom 42pt1 Travel Insurance - slides 16817 are the wrong way round

Classroom 42pt2 Travel Money - slides 34&35 wrong way round

Classroom 42pt3 IPS - slides 11&12 wrong way round

Classroom 76 Moneygram - Should be in first 6 days

Classroom 80 Feedback & Closure - Last few slides could be in a better order.

Classroom Min service standards9/05 - Red green to white on red.Black on red to white on red

Classroom Min standards - grey should be black writing.

Classroom Reg Compliance - Receipts delegated bring in do not state which tests they have
passed, they need to be titled by the compliance team

Classroom Business Strategy - New values are FEB

Classroom Introduction to horizon 8/1 - Change this to £6

Classroom 1 and 4 session H & S - slide 14 mis spelling shows LACATION

Classroom Slide 3 H&S - add the word NO TEXTING on mobiles

Classroom H&S slide 16 - Green line around items for 10kgms plus
Introduction to horizon trainers notes - Add after slide 5 but before 6, delegates need

Classroom to log on with the cto user name, create themselves, THEN they log out and log back
in using their new user. Then complete the practical exercise

Classroom PP answer sheet - Full driving licence if paper one, or full/ provisional photo driving

Classroom 70. 72 - add cash and jewellery must be sent in polyops, counter focus has picture

Classroom Ses 46 slide 3 notes - add in calculation how we got to the final sum.

Network Hub Team Not sure what you cover in the ‘intro’ bit but we need to make sure that we bring this
session into line with our Post Office Story .... (do we show our heritage video?) ...
Julia Marwood classroom are the values in line with the PO Story stuff around care, passion and trust?

Also need to make sure there is something in the intro about our future aspirations
and the major change programmes going on across the business i.e. NT, Crown

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

12

December 2011
POL00033610

POL00033610

Transformation, Front Office of Government etc.

Bit concerned that there is absolutely no mention in the objectives about focusing on
providing a high standard of ‘customer service’ ... the focus seems to be sales and
transactional! I think the first or second bullet needs to reflect the importance of
providing a high standard of service to the customer (as well as selling of course!) but
if you get the first right the sale will come as_a matter of course.

The content of the Counter Skills Course. It is only the timings and running order that is

Bob Collins’ Team I Network Field Support I Classroom wrong
PTC The whole process has impressed the agents I have been involved with.
The PTV at the three month stage works well with the FTL being able to access the
PTC performance of the FSA as well as being able to deal with problems and issues raised
my our new Postmasters.
Day 1 - Keep sessions 1 &4, 8 and 7pt1 &5
Day 2 - Keep sessions 7pt2 , 70 & 72, 46, 47
David Patrick Ss Network Field Support I Classroom by 3 = m0 changes, can move sessions around
Day 6 - as above
Day 7 - as above
Julia Mann’s Team_I Network Field SupportI PTC 3-month visit - No problems with this
On Site SPMR Self Audit - No problems with this
PTC Pre — Transfer Contact - No problems with this
Classroom Classroom Course duration & content - Cannot comment since I have not run a course
for a very long time.
ony , Keep the sessions so that just 1 FSA can do the whole course rather than in the past
Lee Heil’s Team I Network Field Support I Classroom having 3 FSA's to do modules 1,2 and 3. Works well and is easier to resource. p
On Site Works well and shouldn’t be change
A great opportunity to engage with spmr and find out how they are doing. This provides
Chris Fayers’ Team I Network Field Support I PTC a quick healthcheck and gives them a chance to air their views and concerns. (Four
people commented this way)
7 5
Rita Kendellen s Network Field Support I Classroom Conversations handout very good starting point for delegates
PTC Self audit pack a brilliant idea but make all the questions questions. E.g. Question 38

“my staff and I are competent in knowledge of NS&I products” this should be a specific

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

December 2011

13
POL00033610

POL00033610
question to test knowledge. E.g. If Premium Bonds are purchased on 3 December
which month will they be eligible for the draw?

Ready to Serve document is useful for new agents to prepare themselves. Maybe not

On Site to be used on a daily basis when they are more used to the job, but new agent feedback
has said as an intial aid it was very useful.

Linda Mclaughlin S I Network Field Support I Classroom Duration of course 6 to 8 days.

Potential to select a more bespoke option for smaller branches, especially for Island

PTC branches. Perhaps forego a face to face 3 month visit, replacing with a phone call and
spending longer onsite at 6-9 month audit.

in’
Frank Martin s Network Field Support I Classroom 8 Intro to HOL Helpline - no issues

Classroom 7pt1 & 5 Take over stock unit & Datestamps - no issues

Classroom 16 Postage Stamps - no issues

Classroom 46 Cash Management - no issues

Classroom 28pt1 Santander Deposits - no issues

Classroom 28pt 2 Aps/reversals - no issues.

Classroom 51pt2 Cashcheques - no issues

Classroom 3 Business Awareness - no issues

Classroom 10 Balancing - no issues

Classroom 74 Redirection - no issues

Classroom 45 Security - no issues

Classroom 54pt1 POCA existing accounts - no issues

Classroom 598&60 NS&l - no issues

Classroom 54pt2 POCA opening etc. - no issues

Classroom 12pt2 The Perfect Branch - no issues

Classroom 66868 MVLs - no issues

Classroom 50 DVLA Premium Service - no issues

Classroom 61 Insurances - no issues

Needs to be longer as can be difficult to get every thing done especially with a full

Team

Bob Collins’ Team I Network Field Support I Classroom course of delegates.
EASE I find EASE so cumbersome and out of date. This is the starting point of all the other
bits, so needs to be user friendly and up to date.
David Patrick’s Network Field Support I Classroom I only shadowed for the last 2 days of the course which covered passports, car tax and

car/bike/homellife insurances but I found the sessions very rushed and only gave a very

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

December 2011

14
POL00033610
POL00033610

brief overview with no real depth

One of my delegates suggested the Minimum Standard Conversation would have been
useful if they had it sent to them with the distance learning pack so they would be able
to look at it in advance so as to see what they would be doing when we cover the
perfect branch.

Classroom

I feel that the new module does not cover any means of test after day 5 and day 8.
Previously with the old course we covered a course on day 5 which gave an indication
Classroom on how the delegates under stood the transactions and the course, which also meant
that any weak areas could be forwarded on to the onsite trainer , The same with day 7 &
8 there is no test to show if the delegates have understood the sessions.

There are many areas as a ctc trainer that I have had to deal with in a short period of
Classroom time, and its then we build up the rapport with the new delegates, if we know they have
left the course happy and understood , then the transition will not be so daunting.

I have heard from previous delegates with the group how much they have to take in

Classroom such a short time.
Many of the new delegates who are spm do not seem to have contact from HR &

Classroom Recruitment with regard to contracts, transfer dates change due to problems with
outgoing, so may be if both teams could contact the new spm whilst they are on the
course it would avoid cancellation or changing transfer dates at the last minute,

Classroom Most of the time the spm have not received contracts and additional papers from HR.
It would be nice to have a CA to sit in on a session to see how delegates are doing on

Classroom the course, but understand they are busy, but we have to pick up the pieces when they
are struggling.

Classroom Over all my main changes would be to have a 10 day course as before, and having day
2 on all sales products , The secret and perfect branch all covered at the same time.

Classroom Also to have a test on both day 5 and day 10 so we know how well the delegates have

done and also it gives the ctc trainer an idea on how the course went.

Ready to Serve - This requires the Subby to do a check every day which is too much
and not really required. As a result, they tend to do it for about a week or two and then
forget it. It would be better if it were a ‘once a week’ task and maybe the completion of it
should be checked at audit.

Julia Mann’s

Team Network Field Support I On Site

1 month Call - These calls can be difficult. You cannot see if the Subby has a queue and
if it really is convenient to be talking with him. A visit also allows you to check on the
PTC general running of the office in the most crucial early stages e.g. is he/she doing
everything right. Any problems can be resolved quickly which, under the present
procedure, would not be spotted until the 3 month visit.

6-9 month audit - There is rather a lot to do at this audit and it all takes a long time. It
PTC can be very difficult to ask all of the questions, and talk about everything that we have
to, whilst the Subby is trying to serve customers.

Minimum Service Standards (conversations) - Is it just me? I’ve tried to instil the correct

On Site conversations into the folk I’ve trained but they all want to ‘say it their way’. Then at later

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

15

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

visits, all of the work done on these conversations is proved to be a waste since they are
not having them as they should be.

DDA Accessibility Guidance Pack - The PTC document states the following on the front
page, and is an action at the 1 and 3 month contacts - A// New Agents must complete
DDA Self audit contained within Guide prior to PTV visit. Completion is also a condition
of appointment. At the 3 month visit

PTC This is also always a Condition of Appointment.

However I have completed at least 19 PTV’s and not one PM has ever seen sight of this
document. I always end up emailing the PM a copy after my visit. This needs to be
looked in to and a copy need to be with the PM ready for when they start at their brach —
either sent by HR or Contract Advisors.

Lee Heil’s Team_I Network Field Support _[ Classroom Not all FSA’s are trained to complete classroom training thus limiting our resource.

Chris Fayers’ We should be holding ‘Train the Trainer’ sessions to make sure we are all delivering the

Team Network Field Support I Classroom sales sections in the same way.

It would be useful to ask a member of the Sales Team to take a 1% - 2 hour session on

Classroom sales as they are more experienced than us.

Rita Kendellen’s
Team

PSA time at end of course who goes first? What keeps others occupied and ensures

Network Field Support I Classroom privacy when delivering the feedback to individuals

General - Completing the transfer and then expecting the branch to open in the
afternoon is a very optimistic expectation. In all but a handful of cases the money
transfer for the business does not take place until at least 2pm on the day of the transfer
and it is quite often later than that. Once the money has transferred the incoming is then
pulled in all directions, trying to learn from the outgoing what all the keys open and
close, learning the locking up process, how the tills work, dealing with stock takers,
removal men, agreeing meter readings, putting beds together so the children have
somewhere to sleep that night, numerous phone calls from the bakery/ milk/ newspaper
supplier wanting to set up accounts etc etc. The last thing they want to do serve in the
PO. So you either get the staff running the branch, which is OK as you can get them
coached in minimum sales standards (if required) but this could obviously be completed
PO Local later in the week However as the on site FSA you want the new Subpostmaster and it is
very rare to see him/her. If a single person branch you get a very harassed person who
wants/needs to be elsewhere and he/she takes nothing in. No matter how much you
stress on the pre transfer telephone call what the expectation is in my experience it does
not happen successfully very often, I feel we should go back to lunchtime transfers and
leave the PO closed pm. As branches are generally busier mornings that afternoons
anyway less customers would inconvenienced. Branches were there are staff or the
Sub wants to could still open after the transfer once the money has gone through and it
would make better us of FSA time as we would not need to attend until lunchtime in all
but the busiest branches where it may be beneficial to go a bit earlier. We would not to
sit around for at least half a day and sometimes considerably more awaiting the transfer
of funds. I am of course aware that there would be an additional cost of one day on site

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

16

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

training if it was decided to stick to the same delivery package as at present, but this
would in my opinion be justified as the value of day one on site in terms of training is
generally worthless.

Feedback from a new agent at PTV — As generally for most branches at least a third of
transactions in branch are mails should we spend more time percentage in the
Classroom classroom doing lots of practical exercises, playing customer and clerk, so that they are
fully competent with mails items, This would allow time on site to do the easy scanning,
etc. and postmaster will be more confident with initial customers and transactions.

Linda New procedure for follow up balance at 6-9 months is a good idea and PTC process is
McLaughlin’s Network Field Support I PTC. quite straight forward to follow. Also Sub Pm self audit and Ready To Serve doc as
Team been received well

3 month PTV, should not be restricted to FTL only, should be utilised as a development
opportunity for FSA. Also due to geographical location these visits can be extremely
costly without making best use of FTL time. Feedback on FSA could be obtained by
phone based on Kendata feedback etc if required

PTC

The new Help navigation exercise - This new exercise crucial to the new course to ‘sow
the seed’ of the importance of the Help function was not in my prep box (2 weeks ago).
I had to print off my own copies.

Confirmation required that this will in future be included.

Chris Gilding’s

Team Network Field Support I Classroom

Having done my first course for quite a while I went into this course with a positive
attitude but possibly looking for issues.

My initial thought is what has changed. I have already expressed the opinion that we
might have missed the boat as far as making changes to the course and still hope this
isn’t seen as being negative and unconstructive. It seems to me all we have done is to
take the old sessions, up date them a little but no longer call them module 1, 2 or 3. I
was very aware that this course is still a one size fits all type of course which is aimed
more towards the crown office branches. All of this might of course be changed with the
network changes, even so, SPMR of Main PO Branches are not the same as counter
assistants in a Crown Office, my feeling is there should be a course written completely
from scratch that is aimed specifically at someone who will have to run a branch by
themselves after a couple of weeks or so. As a for instance, we could cover Rem’s more
fully.

The notes are very full now almost scripted and even though I tried to follow them I
found I was talking a head of the slides. I do find it hard to train with the notes in front of
me meaning that I have probably missed something that was important. The onsite
training will probably high light if that is the case. When I was running courses back to
back I developed my own style and more importantly, made changes. So the next
course always ran smoother than the previous one, unfortunately this doesn't seem
possible now, which I fully understand.

Day 2 I found a very heavy day and I think the delegates did as well. Someone
commented that Business awareness sits better in day one. I didn’t really understand

Classroom

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

17

December 2011
POL00033610
POL00033610

slide 14 in session 9, and there are no notes. The notes for slide 6 say, ‘you may have
seen this before’, when did the delegates see this slide before? If we are going to simply
put another presentation designed for a different type of audience into the course, can
we at least make some changes to reflect what we are about? In fact I wasn’t
comfortable delivering this session as although it clearly is important, I didn’t feel
qualified to deliver it. It is clearly designed to be delivered by an experienced sales
manager. Still I feel I did my best.

I haven't really done that much on-site training, however I don’t see there is much
change here. The main issue I think on site is training a new PM to run a well managed
On Site branch and some time in a classroom setup going through basic routines, i.e.
Remittances, MVL procedures etc I am sure would be useful, let's call a one day
induction.

I can’t comment on the PTV as I haven’t done one, however the phone call is good as
issues can be picked up quickly. As to the audit, again this is good as it picks up any
problems, however, would it not be better to do a compliance audit at the 3 month visit
PTC and use the actual audit at the 6 month stage to gauge whether any gaps have been

closed. This can then be seen not so much as finding fault but as part of the training and
support. Most new PM's want to have a well run compliant branch and will take this
seriously. The real concern would be if they haven't closed the gaps by the 6 month
period.

General Observations: The whole appearance of the presentations is mixed. It's quite
obvious they've been written by different people. The result is an incohesive look and
feel to the course which makes it harder to deliver and makes the trainer look less
professional

Frank Martin’s

Team Network Field Support I classroom

Audit Review Internal Stakeholder Feedback

18

December 2011
