POL00047412

POL00047412

This document explains your legal
rights. It is important that you read

and understand it.

DATE SHOWN Q\- Ow -S lo Time 1-26 urs

Because you are suspected of having committed a criminal offence which may result in a criminal
prosecution I must inform you that:

You do not have to say anything, but it may harm your defence if you do not mention when
questioned something which you later rely on in court. Anything you do say may be given in
evidence.

Do you understand?
I must also inform you that:

4. You are not under arrest.

You are free to leave if you wish. (If the interview is being conducted anywhere other than Post Office
Ltd premises consent must also be obtained from the interviewee and person entitled to grant entry to
premises, to carry out the interview there)

3. If you do remain you have the right to legal representation and advice including the right to speak with
a Solicitor either in person or on the telephone. (The Solicitor will give you advice regarding Legal
Aid’). I can ascertain the availability of the Duty Solicitor or assist with directory enquiries if you wish.
You are entitled to read the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 Codes of Practice if you wish. The
Codes set out your legal rights and the rules governing the conduct of this interview.

Spe
Have you read 1 - 4 above? eee /ES. we ae
(Reply to be written by person being interviewed) #

ED. -

(Reply to be written by person being interviewed) #

1 wish to speak with a Solicitor as soon as it is practical. 7 esese

I do not want to speak to a Solicitor at this time sic

2

Do you understand 1 - 4 above?

® if you do nots
during the inte;

(Reply to be written by person being terviewed) #

SIGNED DATE “G(-O6 -OG.. TIME I S°AQ HRS

PRINT NAME

# Ifa Solicitor is requested at any stage. the interview must be immediately suspended

* This sentence to be deleted when the interview is conducted at a police station
® Delete as applicable [2

Coutr Exmi@ir NOE as.
\BeumAcanca MARK' BM I

S001 Side A Version 6.0 10/03
