1 I
To: John Meagher From: Derek Selwood
Date: 2 October 1996

ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA

Copy: Pat Kelsey
John Cook
Colin Oudot
John Murray
Michael Purchase
Gary Palmer

1. You asked me to review the Acceptance Criteria
document which accompanied the letter of 20 September
from Jim Morley of ICL Pathway. Since I am out this
afternoon and tomorrow on Lessons Learned work, I am
letting you have my thoughts so far.

2. Before reading the Acceptance Criteria, it is useful
to read the following documents, which are currently
Pathway internal rather than shared Pathway/PDA:

a. Standard for documenting Acceptance
Specifications
b. Standard for Specifying Acceptance Criteria
c. Standard for Raising and Progressing Acceptance
Incidents
3. As I mentioned at your management meeting yesterday,

my first concern was the sight of a timetable (last page
of paper 2.b) that quoted this Friday (4 October) as the
date for BA/POCL to agree the Criteria for CMS, PAS and
Helpdesk). As agreed, I have told Pat Kelsey that:

a. the date is unachievable (119 pages, some 1200
Criteria) ;

b. in any event, I would have thought the
timetable was constructed before agreement of the new
approach to testing. This envisages a period of joint.
PDA/Pathway joint testing in December and January prior
to the PDA Final Test in February (which is’ when I would

‘ expect the Criteria’ to ‘bité’)... Whilst I could

understand Pathway’s keenness to get things tied down,
before théy runout of ‘development time, ‘I could not see
that it must.be, done by..4 October.

POL00090140
POL00090140

O1

POL00090140
POL00090140

4. Pat spoke briefly to Tony Oppenheim of Pathway
yesterday. He agreed that the dates for commenting on
the detail could move somewhat, given the new testing
approach, but said that Pathway are very keen to get our
reaction to the principles adopted. I fully take Pat’s
point that we shouldn’t expose ourselves to a position of
Pathway saying “We can’t fulfil obligation ‘x’ because
you didn’t do ‘y’ sufficiently swiftly”.

The Pathway approach to specifying criteria

5. The approach Pathway have adopted (see example
Requirement 696 and Criteria 696-1 to 696-9 attached) is
simply to break down the total statement of Requirement
into a number of parts and (broadly) parrot the words
back to us in the form of a number of criteria.

6. I don’t have a problem with the principle of that.
Requirements always take precedence, and should therefore
be our starting point, and the criterion for a
requirement ‘Do x’ is, put simply, ‘x is done’. However,
what this then does is expose the lack of detail in the
Requirements which, if we simply sign up to the
corresponding criteria, leaves the way open to Pathway to
claim satisfaction of criteria in a (minimalist) way that
we had not envisaged or intended.

7. For example, with thanks to John Cook for the
original thought, consider the requirement ‘I want to
work in a room with a window’, the criterion for which
would be: ‘The room supplied for working has a window’.
But what about:

The window size;

The window glass (clear/opaque) ;

The ability to open the window (or lack of it);
The distance from the desk to the window

aanrga

and so on.

8. .So in our random selection of Requirement and
Criteria: 696:

‘1.’ I Format of ‘report’ to be agreed ™

2. Is the statement sufficient as it stands, I or -
* does it need more detail?

.3. = 9 raise thé same kind. of questions.

(And why has ‘must’ in the contract been watered down to
‘should’ in the Criteria?)

9. It may be that some of the missing detail has been
worked through in, for instance, the Functional
Specification and the discussions between the PM team and
Pathway. But I’m sure we still have a lot to do, and in
any event how do we ensure that the Requirements schedule
faithfully reflects all this detail?

10. As far as I can judge, the criteria reflect the
Requirements as specified in the 15 May contract. This
is as per 3(c) of paper 2.b, i.e. no Changes are
recognised unless they are contractually authorised.
There is now a ‘legalised’ version of the Requirements
schedule yet to formally pass through Change Control, but
it is probably not a bad idea to start with the baseline
contract and then change the Criteria as the Requirements
change.

11. The approach of tackling the whole Requirement
document assures comprehensiveness, but we also need
Pathway to address:

a. the functionality included in Release 1
(another reason for pressing them on this now that they
have admitted it will be less than 100%); and

b. the scope of each Acceptance Test.
Untestable Criteria

12. dim Morley’s letter draws attention to the fact that
the principle of achieving complete coverage of Criteria
against Requirements has produced some untestable
Criteria. I think he has a valid point (although I don’t
understand his final bullet) and agree that these will

.need to be combed out.

Non-functional Criteria

‘13. I haven’t checked on whethier all the Requirements

addressed by the Criteria are ‘ours’, but if they are not
then’ the’ non-PM ones need to’ be clearly allocated tothe
appropriate parts of the PDA. : ,

POL00090140
POL00090140

POL00090140
POL00090140

The Way Ahead

14. I think that, unless anyone can shed some blinding
light of inspiration on a topic that has been decidedly
murky for the past few months, the Pathway approach
represents the best starting point.

15. However, there are a number of issues raised by the
production of the Criteria. The Morley letter details
some, I have detailed others above and recipients of this
note need to consider whether there are more.

16. I think we need a meeting of Product Management,
Procurement and Integrate/Test to talk the issues
through, to ensure that we have our act together before
then talking to Pathway. All this needs to be done as
soon as is practical given the Pathway pressure and the
work that has to be done in any event (in re-writing if
we don’t accept the Pathway approach, or in enhancing if
we do).

17. You will wish to consider the stage at which you ask
Colin Oudot and John Murray to start their teams working
on a systematic review of the Criteria. Given the
pressures that people are under already and the scale of
the review task, you will obviously be seeking broad
agreement from recipients that the Pathway approach is
the one to be followed before embarking on this.

Derek Selwood
2 October 1996

POL00090140
POL00090140

AUTHORITIES' AGREEMENT SCHEDULE BO1 RESTRICTED - CONTRACTS
Requirement 696 Release spr 7

No
Programme POCL Subject POCL Applications (EPOSS)
Grouping Applications Heading

Systems - design

Requirement Description:
Reporting

EPOSS must allow production of a daily report that will show, at
office level the cash holdings by individual denomination of bank
note and coin. The format of the report will be agreed by POCL and
the Contractor.

EPOSS must support the summarisation of daily and weekly
transaction vochers at stock unit level.

EPOSS must support a reporting facility to print on Client cut
sheet stationary where the client requires it (such as Girobank
daily summaries).

Girobank is only a current example - we neeed to keep the
flexibility to print on other cut sheets e.g. Tax Discs / cheques
in due course.

The format of all styles of receipts will be agreed by POCL and
the Contractor. A bilingual Welsh/English version is required.

EPOSS must allow production of duplicate receipts and they must be
marked as such.

EPOSS must support the summarisation of daily and weekly
transaction vouchers at stock unit level.

EPOSS must support a reporting facility to print on Client cut
sheet stationary to support Girobank and the Postmaster’s daily
Record (PDR) summarisation.

EPOSS must support reporting by journal/tally roll and on a4
sheets to- predefined. Client requirements at both stock unit and

- office levels. -

EPOSS must allow reporting to be previewed on screen.

Requirements oo . _ Page 110 ‘of 421° on Version 5.0 + Pathway

POL00090140
POL00090140

Acceptance Criteria 20-Sep-96

(

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No: 4 Test: EPOS

The CONTRACTOR shall be aware that Stock Units are individual units of accountability which contain Stock (fixed price
Stock items, Customer and Client specific Tokens, retail Stock Items, cash and Transaction Vouchers for a POCL Outlet

Accounting Period

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No:

Criterion EPOSS shall allow a User or group of Users to be accountable for a Stock Unit, so that each Outlet has at least one Stock
Description: Unit, but there can be other Stock Units, effectively operating independently

} Requirement td: 695 Criterion No: 6 Test: EPOS
I Criterion Each Stock Unit can in turn be tied to both a User or group of Users or a single Till or group of Tills.
Description:

Requirement Id: 695 Test: EPOS
erion EPOSS shall allow each Stock Unit to be Balanced individually. The Stock Unit may be Balanced more than once within a
scription: POCL Outlet Accounting Period. Cash and Stock Items shall be entered by denomination or Stock Item level. This applies
whether or not multiple Tills are linked to a single Stock Unit

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No: 8 Test: EPOS
Criterion ‘At the end of the POCL Outlet Accounting Period an Outlet Balance is struck with the details provided by the Balanced Stock
Description: Units

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No: 9 Test: EPOS

I Criterion An Outlet brings to account manual voucher Transactions including Transaction Vouchers, automated voucher Transactions

Description: _ including Transaction Vouchers, reports the Suspense Account position and the Stock and cash totals within the approved
Cash Account format

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No: 10 Test: EPOS

Criterion The cycle is repeated in the new POCL Outlet Accounting Period with an Outlet Balance brought forward value that includes
Description: the Stock and cash in hand, Suspense Account and loss and gain position from the previous POCL Outlet Accounting Period

Requirement Id: 695 Criterion No: 1 Test: EPOS

Criterion EPOSS shall provide a secure mechanism for controlling access to a Stock Unit
Description:

Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 1 Test: EPOS

Criterion EPOSS shall allow production of a daily Report that shows, at Outlet level, the cash holdings by individual denomination of
Description: bank note and coin. The format of the report shall be agreed by POCL and the CONTRACTOR by a date consistent with the
project plan agreed by the parties, such that the date does not adversely impact contractual milestones as defined in Clause

605.1 of the Authorities Agreement.

Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 2. Test: EPOS
Criterion EPOSS shall support the summarisation of daily and weekly Transaction Vouchers at Stock Unit level.
Description: . . vo

29

POL00090140
POL00090140

Acceptance Criteria 20-Sep-96

Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 3 Test: EPOS

Criterion EPOSS shall support a reporting facility to print on Client cut sheet stationery where the Client requires it (including without

Description: _ limitation Girobank daily summaries).

Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 4 Test: EPOS
Criterion The CONTRACTOR shail be aware that Girobank is only an example - POCL needs to keep the flexibility to print on other cut
Description: sheets e.g. tax discs/cheques in due course

Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No 5 Test: EPOS

Criterion _The format of all styles of receipts shall be agreed by POCL and the CONTRACTOR by a date consistent with the project plan
Description: agreed by the parties, such that the date does not adversely impact contractual milestones as defined in Clause 605.1 of the

Authorities Agreement . A bilingual Welsh/English version is required in designated Outlets
Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 6 Test: EPOS
eo: EPOSS shall allow production of duplicate receipts and they shall be marked as such
cription:
Requirement Id: 696 Criterion No: 7 Test: EPOS
Criterion EPOSS shall support a reporting facility to print on Client cut sheet stationery to support Girobank and the Postmaster's Daily

Description: Record (PDR) summarisation

Criterion No: 8 Test: EPOS

Requirement Id: 696

Criterion EPOSS shall support reporting by journal/tally roll and on A4 sheets to Client requirements at both Stock Unit and Outlet
Description: _ levels, with the format to be agreed by a date consistent with the project plan agreed by the parties, such that the date does
not adversely impact contractual milestones as defined in Clause 605.1 of the Authorities Agreement.

Requirement Id: 696
criterion __«EPOSS shall allow reporting to be previewed on screen
Description:

Requirement Id: 697 Criterion No: 1 Test: Audit

Criterion The CONTRACTOR and his sub-contractors shall keep or cause to be kept Records {including financial records) of all
Description: Services, covering materials and Services provided, timesheet records, contracts let to sub-contractors and Charges levied to
the AUTHORITIES. These Records shall not be more detailed than those held by the CONTRACTOR for its own audit

purposes

Criterion No: 9 Test: EPOS

Requirement Id: 697 Criterion No: 2 Test: Audit

The CONTRACTOR shall permit the AUTHORITIES or AUTHORITIES’ representatives (including those bodies listed in

cords for the purpose of

Criterion

Description: paragraph 2.1 of Schedule A03 of the AUTHORITIES’ Agreement) unrestricted access to the Rec
auditing and reporting on the performance, including charging and accounting aspects, of the Services

Requirement Id: 697 Criterion No: 3 Test: Audit

Criterion DSS shall have the right of access to inspect the DSS Services and POCL shall have the right of access to inspect the POCL

Description: Services. The AUTHORITIES may appoint an independent auditor to examine areas that are mutually commercially sensitive

30

