POL00107710
POL00107710

1** Floor

148 Old Street
LONDON

EC1V 9HQ

The Rt Hon Oliver Letwin MP
Cabinet Office

70 Whitehall

LONDON

SW1A 2AS

4 April 2012

Dear Oliver

I understand you raised a query on the robustness of the Post
Office Horizon system yesterday with Moya Greene. I am grateful to
Moya for passing this query on to me.

The Post Office takes very seriously any perception that there is
an issue with the accuracy of the Horizon system: there isn't. The
Horizon system has been rigorously tested using independent
assessors and robust procedures.

Therefore when queries are raised, my team will work with
Subpostmasters to help identify the problem. Very often the
'missing' funds are a keying or balancing error that can be put
right, and training given to ensure it doesn't happen again. These
checks and procedures resolve virtually all discrepancies
satisfactorily. However, in some cases, which fortunately are very
few and far between, we have had to prosecute Subpostmasters for
theft or false accounting and provide evidence which substantiates
our legal position. In every instance, the courts have found in
our favour. This is a particularly difficult and sensitive
situation when it arises.

As I think you are aware, your colleague James Arbuthnot raised a
similar query on behalf of one of his constituents at a recent
meeting with Alice Perkins, the Post Office Chairman. James also
wanted to understand the wider issues raised by the action group
Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance.

Alice has since invited James to our head office, where we can
show him in detail how the Horizon system works. I would like to
extend the same invitation to you, either with James or
independently.

My office will be in touch to arrange a meeting but, in the
meantime, if you could provide me with details of the Post Office
in your constituency that is encountering problems, I will ensure
we look into it as soon as possible.

Yours sincerely
POL00107710
POL00107710

1** Floor

148 Old Street
LONDON

EC1V 9HQ

Paula Vennells
Chief Executive
