POLO0039065
POL00039065

Message

From: Andrew Winn [andrew.winn

Sent: 28/03/2012 07:14:06

To: Cathy X Macdonald [cathy.x.macdonald
cc: Eleanor Kimberley [eleanor.kimberley@
Subject: FW: Rolling Loss report ,

Attachments: image001.gif; image002.gif; image003.gif; image004.jpg

Sent: 27 March 2012 16:56
To: Andrew Winn
Subject: RE: Rolling Loss report

Hi Andrew;

Please see online help instructions as below ;

Resolving branch discrepancies
It is your responsibility to resolve branch discrepancies.

e Ifyou believe a Transaction Correction is needed to resolve the discrepancy you should contact the
appropriate department in P&BA via the NBSC on

Checking for discrepancies

Individual stock units

When completing your stock unit balance, you can check for discrepancies between your declarations for
postage and cash and the system derived figures for the same things.

Please note: The stock declaration facility is unavailable for individual stock units.
« From the Back Office menu select:

o Stock Balancing
o Other Discrepancies

Individual stock units
If the system displays a list of discrepancies:

e Make a note of the discrepancies
e Press Enter

Declaring your See
postage Also
(Individual) FA

e Make adjustments to your postage or cash as required

POL-0035547
POLO0039065
POL00039065

Declaring your See

« Make adjustments to your postage or cash as required postage Also

(Shared) F2)

Adjusting/
« Adjusting/declaring your stock declaring your
stock

If there are no discrepancies, select Continue.
«  Ifthere are discrepancies, you will need to confirm them, the next page shows you how to do this

Where discrepancies are identified, Horizon Online will request Gain/Loss confirmation and will determine if
any of the Gains or Losses has breached the threshold for that product.

If any threshold breaches are found, Horizon Online will show a screen displaying the products which require a
reason to be applied.

« For each product, press the apply reason button on the corresponding row.
A new screen will be displayed showing 5 reasons with the ones available enabled for selection.

¢ Select the correct reason by pressing the select reason button on the corresponding row.
e This will take you back to the previous screen, continue to apply a reason for each row (using Page Up /
Page Down as necessary if there is more than I page).

When each product has had a reason applied, the enter button will be enabled.
« Press Enter to confirm the reasons applied and continue with the Balance Stock Unit process.

Please note: Horizon Online will not allow you to proceed until you have applied a reason against each and
every discrepancy listed. If you select cancel before applying a reason the system will end the balancing process
and return you to the Back Office menu screen.

Kind Regards

Ibrahim Kizildag
NBSC Team Manager
Deame House
Cortonwood Drive
Barnsley

S73 OUF
Telephone Numb
Post Line

From: Andrew Winn
Sent: 26 March 2012 09:11

POL-0035547
POLO0039065
POL00039065

To: Ibrahim Kizildag
Cc: Eleanor Kimberley; Cathy X Macdonald
Subject: RE: Rolling Loss report

Hi Ibrahim
I can't see anything that would support the suggestion at the beginning of the e mail below. This is all I have found under
HOL, Branch trading, All SUs & Local suspense. This just provide the options. Is there anything that provides advice on

what to do?

Cheers
Andy

Branch Trading: balancing and despatch - Settling Local Suspense for the branch (Cannot Roll 0 . Micrasoft Internei Explorer p
Favorites Tools Hels &

father stabjtesb?6.hi

y Zo seach 5

seideess 9) tatp:ff10.293.32, 14/Servicesoft DatafPOSTORFICE att achieNG.

I

I Settling Local Suspense (Page 1 of 1}
[Setting Local Suspense for the branch: option!(‘Cannet rollover’ screen)

[Please note: You must have Manager/Supervisor access to carry out this function.

I

Cash
® Assign te Nominee ® Make Good Cheque
® Settle Cent

® Make Good - Caeh
® Write off to P&L

Please note: The ‘Settle Centrally’ aption will only be available if the discrepancy is £150 er aver.

® Select the option on the sereen you want to select, or use Page Up or Page Down to select the required
opter
© Press

I

I

I

I te process the selected option, clear the Lacal Suspense total and rolfover the stork unit.
I ® Select Contism

I ® Select Continus
I

I

I

From: Cathy X Macdonald

Sent: 26 March 2012 08:43

To: Andrew Winn

Cc: Eleanor Kimberley

Subject: FW: Rolling Loss report

Andy

Would you be able to tell us what is held on Remedy re advice to pmrs who have a discrep at Branch Trading — do they
advise to settle to cash ?

POL-0035547
POLO0039065
POL00039065

Thanks
Cathy

Fraud & Conformance Manager
No I Future Walk

West Bars

Chesterfield

S49 1PF

From: John Breeden
Sent: 25 March 2012 20:40

To: Cathy X Macdonald
Subject: RE: Rolling Loss report

Cathy,

Further to your email below could you confirm if any checks have been made of the NBSC scripts when they are
contacted by SPMRs regarding losses.

The reason for asking is when we contact SPMRs to discuss rolling losses they are indicating that the advice provided
was not to settle centrally but to settle to cash. I realise occasionally SPMR’s remember what they did believing this was
the advice provided ie they settled to cash despite being told to settle centrally but a number of the losses on this report
should have been settled centrally and think it would be worth checking the knowledge based used by the Helpline to
ensure it is correct.

lam sure we have discussed this before — can you let me know how this progresses please.
Thanks

John

John Breeden

Agents Contracts Deployment Manager North

Post Office Ltd - Network Services
2nd Floor, The Markets Crown Office, 6/16 New York Street, Leeds LS2 7DZ

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are
not the intended recipient, please contact me by reply e-mail and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Cathy X Macdonald

Sent: 13 March 2012 09:34

To: John Breeden

Cc: Ian Crookes; Eleanor Kimberley
Subject: Rolling Loss report

John
As discussed yesterday I've gone through the Rolling loss process with lan and Eleanor

lan normally escalates branches where we suspect rolling losses or are unable to contact postmasters to discuss values
over £500 which have not been settled centrally at Branch Trading.

Eleanor then escalates to the relevant Contract Advisor

POL-0035547
POLO0039065
POL00039065

Eleanor then summarises the escalations into a report for you and Lin. The feedback I'm getting from Eleanor and lan is
that the action taken by Contract Advisors forms a key part in reducing losses / catching them early. I've seen a number of
audit requests forwarded by Contract Advisors which identify losses and suspensions where we've escalated ‘Rolling
losses’

Going forward I propose the following

e Escalations will only be made for branches having 3 or more losses over £500 over 3 Branch Trading Periods that
have not been settled centrally or by cheque

e Any single losses over £1k we will use our discretion before escalating to Contracts

e The report continues to be provided to you and Lin summarising escalations.

« Review after Period 2 to see if process working better for both areas

Hope the above is ok , please let me know if you want any further changes

Thanks

Cathy

Fraud & Conformance Manager
No I Future Walk

West Bars
Chesterfield
S49 1PF

POL-0035547
