Memo

30" January 2007

Investigation Team Post Office Limited

c.c. Graham Brander
Ged Harbinson

ROYAL MAIL GROUP plc v JOSEPHINE HAMILTON
ALDERSHOT MAGISTRATES COURT

COMMITTAL — 7 FEBRUARY 2007

CASE NO: POLTD/0506/0685

The committal papers have been approved and served on the Defence Solicitors and
Court. A copy has been supplied to my Agents who have been instructed to conduct
the committal proceedings. I understand that you will bring the original statements to
the Court, could you please hand them to the Agents who will in turn hand them to the
Court.

Whilst I have approved the papers please note:~

1 The statement of Martin Drake refers to various documentation which was
brought to the attention of Hamilton. These will need to be produced in due
course in the event of a trial.

2 Regarding the statement of Rebecca Portch could she formally produce RP/01
I note it is copied in the papers.

3 Could the cash accounts at 1 of the unused be removed and added to the list of
exhibits. A further statement will need to be obtained. This can be served as
additional evidence.

As soon as I am aware which witnesses are required I shall inform you. Please then
immediately obtain leave dates / dates to avoid of all those witnesses. When obtaining
the dates to avoid, please let the witnesses know that it is of the utmost importance
that if any of their dates change and, in particular, if a holiday is booked after they have
given you their dates to avoid then they should inform you, or this Office, immediately.
Please then return the file to this Office together with the dates to avoid.

I remind you that the requirement for the disclosure to the Defence is a continuing duty.
If there is any such material which might reasonably be considered to undermine the
Prosecution case or assist the Defence which has not yet been disclosed then copies of
this material should be forwarded to this Office immediately. If you are in any doubt as
to whether a particular document constitutes unused material then a copy should be
forwarded in any event to this Office where a decision will be made as to whether it
needs to be disclosed. A schedule of all unused material must also be provided, on

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00048473
POL00048473

Royal Mail

The Real Network

Legal Services

3° Floor

6a Eccleston Street
Victoria

LONDON SW1W 9LT

Tel;
Fax:

www royal cori
POL00048473
POL00048473

Memo

Cont...

Forms CSOO6C, D and E if not already done. Should any further unused material
come to light, this should also be included on the schedule and on the updated
schedule provided to this Office.

‘As you are aware, under the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996,
witness orders are abolished. It is therefore, your responsibility to ensure the
voluntary attendance at court of witnesses, or to make arrangements to issue a
witness summons from the Court if a witness whose attendance is required
indicates that he/she is unwilling to attend.

I note that Antecedents have been forwarded and these will be sent to the Crown Court
in due course.

J A McFarlane
Principal Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

Ref: CRM/253367/JMcF

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
document4
