Review of Behaviours: Steve Bradshaw 2010/2011

NB: Reviewee to record/input evidence into this document

Behaviours Examples
1 I I create value for 1 - I seek opportunities to engage with customers and act
customers on their feedback. 2 - I think and act innovatively to

improve value for both our customers and our business.
3-1 discuss customer issues with my colleagues regularly
and work with them to serve our customers better. 4 -

I work creatively to identify and meet customer needs.

On 7 April 2010 I received a request from a Royal Mail Investigator via an e mail
concerning a number of Post Office branches located within Spar Shops. The RM
investigator had been contacted by North Wales Police regarding an armed robbery.
They required CCTV from the named Post Office branches as they had information
that their suspects had visited these branches. I contacted all branches concerned
and spoke with their Security Officers. I was then able to have the CCTV
downloaded onto a disc for the Police Officers. I also assisted the RM investigator in
obtaining the necessary statements. This enabled the Police officers to make
arrests.

Both the RM investigator and North Wales Police thanked me for my efforts.

On 9 April 2010 at a team meeting in Manchester, the Casework team received an
enquiry from Wigan CID for assistance. The casework member was unsure of what
the Police Officer required and I volunteered to look after the enquiry for him.

I spoke with the Officer concerned and after hearing the facts arranged a meeting
with her.

The meeting took place and I was able to assist the officer regarding the arrest of a
sub office assistant by the Immigration Crime Team, when at a search a number of
postal packages had been recovered. I informed the officer that I would contact
Royal Mail Security on her behalf and explain the situation.

The Police officer thanked me for my help and explaining how the recovered good of
approx £15,000 would be dealt with.

I was contacted by a DS from West Mercia Police requiring information of POCA
withdrawals. An elderly person from Bridgend had been burgled and her card stolen
and they obtained the pin number from her.

They believed the card had been used and after obtaining the DPA contacted the
banking team was able to give the police officer the details of where the withdrawals
had taken place.

This information enabled the police to disprove the suspects alibi and resulted in
charges being brought by the CPS.

The Detective Sergeant thanked me for my prompt action.

4) On 6 May 2010 my Team Leader received an e mail from a Security Advisor

(Wayne Griffiths) requesting the Identity and Passport office be contacted. After
speaking with them, I was able to assess the situation and explained that I would
contact Royal Mail on their behalf to contact Royal Mail and explain the situation.
They thanked me and accepted my offer.

I was further contacted by product support in Old Hall Street London in September
for an update as the passport office said they had not received any further contact. I
immediately telephoned the office and updated them and explained Royal Mail’s
findings.

They thanked me for my assistance and explained they (Product Support Specialist)
were now able to report back to the passport office.

On 18 May 2010 I received positive feedback from a Network Field Support Team
leader (Linda McLaughlin) for the recent presentation given to the Field Support
Advisors in her team.

POL00165946
POL00165946
On 27" July 2010 I received a request from the press office regarding the EDS case
(POLTD/0607/0357). She had received enquiries from local papers in the Preston
area for comments on the court case.

I explained the situation to her and that we prosecuted on behalf of EDS and that it
was not Post Office employees or agents who were in court. I explained that I would
contact EDS and obtain the details of their press officer in order they agree a
statement that could be released to the press.

The details were obtained and sent to her and a statement was then agreed and
released.

On 29" July 2010 I received an e mail from Mark Dinsdale who required information
as a matter of urgency for a flag case (George Osbourne MP). I spoke with him on
the telephone and explained the circumstances regarding the enquiry. I then
immediate replied via e mail for the replies to be sent back to the Post Office Ltd
Executive Correspondence Team.

On 4" August 2010 via an e mail I was informed that the information I have
previously supplied on 1 July 2010 that the suspected offender had been arrested
and admitted theft of the postal packages.

I contacted the company (One Stop Rod Hibberson Area Manager
behalf of the RM investigator on 5" August 2010 to ensure they were fully up to date
with the situation and that she would not be working at any other Post Office branch.
I spoke with the Post Office Support Manager who had not yet been informed and
he was grateful for the information and came back to inform me that she had
resigned from the company.

Record summary evidence relating to 9 I On 6" September 2010, I attended the
specific behaviours from 121’s and Counter Training School and spoke with
quarterly reviews the trainees. I re-iterated the standards

required of them and engaged in a
questions and answers session with them.
I also explained the role of the security
team and left my contact numbers for
them for future reference. I explained the
benefits of grapevine and sign up any sub
postmasters not already registered.

10

On 17" September 2010 after receiving an invitation I attended an operational
Fraud Forum at Chesterfield with one my colleagues (Chris Knight and Andrew
Daley). We gave a talk and presentation on the Fraud Strand and then engaged in
a question and answer session on how best we can both assist each other. This
was well received by all who attended and it is envisaged that we will tailor a future
presentation on power point to the specific individual team section at Chesterfield.

n

I own performance 1 - I take ownership of the objectives I agree for myself

and my team that will help to deliver the business goals.
2-1 regularly discuss my team's progress against their
objectives. 3 - I ensure that business goals and current
team performance are highly visible to my whole team.

POL00165946
POL00165946
achievement.

4-I address poor performance and recognise

Record summary evidence relating to I 1
specific behaviours from 121’s and
quarterly reviews

On 13 April 2010 I received a phone call
from a sub postmaster who was on a
counter training course when I gave a

presentation to them. He stated that he
recalled that I had said I was always
available to them if they had any problems
at their branch.

His property was leased from the council
and was in need of repair and had been
informed by a customer that a group of
lads were “hanging” around the property
after the branch had closed.

I contacted the Police and the Physically
security strand and made arrangements
for the property to be visited and for the
council to effect the necessary repairs.
Due to previous engaging with this newly
appointed sub postmaster, he felt
confident to approach me with their
concerns.

The police and city council thanked me
and were grateful for the information and
the repairs have now been completed.

I have volunteered to part of a group “Helping to shape the future Security Strategy”
headed by Nigel Viles and led by Chris Knight. I was not able to attend the inaugural
meeting due to Crown Court commitments. However I contacted other members of
the group to be brought up to speed with the contents of the meeting.

On 6 May 2010 my Team Leader received an e mail from a Security Advisor
(Wayne Griffiths) requesting the Identity and Passport office be contacted. After
speaking with them, I was able to assess the situation and explain to the passport
office that they concerns regarding missing passports could not be attributed to one
Post Office branch. I offered on their behalf to contact Royal Mail and explain the
situation.

They thanked me and accepted my offer and I have since updated the passport
office on the circumstances regarding the missing passports as they stated they had
not been kept informed by Royal Mail.

On 9 June 2010 I received an e mail form a West Midlands Police officer that I was
assisting with a POCA case fraud. The offender had been arrested and subsequently
received a custodial sentence. He informed me that the judge had commended the
actions of the Post Office by their prompt and efficient ensured the repayment of all
monies to the defrauded by the defendant had been repaid and he would like to
convey his gratitude.

On 2 July 2010 due to my own tenacity I was able to recover from a former Post
Office employee a sum of the outstanding amount of £143 owed by him on his mobile
hone bill.

On 5 July 2010 at Preston Crown Court (POLTD/0809/0138) the offender pleaded
guilty to false accounting but would not accept theft. I challenged the
recommendations of the barrister and persuade him that a trial would be necessary
as the reasons given by the defendant (Horizon integrity) would have a wider impart
on the business if a trial did not go ahead.

I also advised that a new trail date should be fixed as there are current issues
ongoing regarding the Horizon system.

He agreed with me and consequently the Judge accepted these points and fixed a
new trial date.

POL00165946
POL00165946
6 I On 24 August 2010 I received a call from Gary Googan a BDM in Northern Ireland

who had been given my details by the Network Field Support Team Leader. He had
been contacted by one of his sub postmasters (Newry) who suspected one of his
Staff of theft. He required advice of what he could or should do and the BDM did not
feel qualified enough to advise him.

I contacted the sub postmaster and obtained the details of his allegation and advised
him what cause of action he should take.

I kept in touch with the sub postmaster to see how he was progressing and then I
updated the BDM with the current situation until my colleague in Northern Ireland
returned from her annual leave. I passed on all the details and gave a full sitrep of
events for her to continue with the liaison with both the BDM and the sub
postmaster.

=
I

I

I take action 1 - I act with energy and enthusiasm and promote a can-
do approach. 2 - I challenge perceived barriers to
action. 3-1 create and respond to opportunities to
improve business performance and efficiency in a timely
fashion. 4-1 actively encourage people to try new
ways of doing things. 5 - I take calculated risks in my
decisions.

On 7 April 2010 I received a request from a Royal Mail Investigator via an e mail
concerning a number of Post Office branches located within Spar Shops. The RM
investigator had been contacted by North Wales Police regarding an armed robbery.
They required CCTV from the named Post Office branches as they had information
that their suspects had visited these branches. I made immediate enquires with each
Post Office branch and by taking this action was able to have the CCTV information
secured. These images enabled the Police officers to make arrests.

On 9 April 2010 at a team meeting in Manchester, the Casework team received an
enquiry from Wigan CID for assistance. The casework member was unsure of what
the Police Officer required and I volunteered to look after the enquiry for him.

I spoke with the Officer concerned and after hearing the facts arranged a meeting
with her.

The meeting took place and I was able to assist the officer and informed her that I
would contact Royal Mail Security regarding the postal packets.

I contacted RM security and explained the situation and that postal packets with a
value of £15,000 of mainly electrical goods had been recovered.

The enquiry was assigned to a RM investigator and I am currently liaising with both
the Police Office and Royal Mail regarding this enquiry.

I was contacted by a DS from West Mercia Police requiring information of POCA
withdrawals. An elderly person from Bridgend had been burgled and her card stolen
and they obtained the pin number from her.

They believed the card had been used and after obtaining the DPA contacted the
banking team was able to give the police officer the details of where the withdrawals
had taken place.

This information enabled the police to disprove the suspects alibi and resulted in
charges being brought by the CPS.

The Detective Sergeant thanked me for my prompt action and the collaboration and
engaging with other agencies resulted in a burglar being taken off the streets and
new contacts with a different Police force being made.

POL00165946
POL00165946
On 13 April 2010 I received a phone call from a sub postmaster who was on a
counter training course when I gave a presentation to them. He stated that he
recalled that I had said I was always available to them if they had any problems at
their branch.

He was concerned about the property which was leased from the council and was in
need of repair. He had been informed by a customer that a group of lads were
“hanging” around the property after the branch had closed and he was concerned
that they may have been looking at breaking into the Post Office branch (he was
also due to receive any cash for bank holiday payments). He said that he had
contacted the council on a number of occasions but was not getting anywhere.

After obtaining all the details I immediately contacted the police and on my advice
arranged for extra patrols in the area to keep an eye on the property.

I then contacted the Physical Security Strand advisor (Richie Graham) and asked for
a visit to the property be made to assess the damage and for the council to be
contacted for them to effect immediate repairs to the building in order that it is ina
fit and proper state for the intended use.

The result of this action is that the building has now been repaired and any
possibility of any burglary / robbery was decreased and thus Post Office Ltd funds
were safeguarded.

On 13 May 2010 at an audit at Westwood Park after speaking with the auditor, I
spoke with the sub postmaster and explained the situation to her and that Post
Office Ltd would be looking for full reimbursement of the outstanding amount.

The enquiry was given to another colleague and due to my initial contact with the
sub postmaster; this resulted in a full recovery and a less traumatic interview for the
sub postmaster.

On 13 July 2010 I received an e mail form the local RM investigator regarding a
message left on their answer phone from a customer who stated that he had
received a packet from Huyton Post Office but the contents were missing.

I contacted Huyton Post Office and obtained from the Branch Manger the details of
what happened. He informed me that the person was going to the press and the
local radio station.

I contacted the customer and explained the reason why the packet had been opened
(it was a call and collect and the name and address was obscured by the courier). I
also managed to convince him not to go to the press and radio and that this was a
one off situation and new procedures had been put in place.

I then spoke with the Branch Manager and explained that if this situation arose
again, ensure that the customer checks the package before leaving the branch.

On 2 August 2010 I received a complaint from Royal Mail that Pilch Lane Post
Office branch were not segregating the mail as they are required to do.

I contacted the branch and explained the situation and the rational behind the
segregation and the need to correctly label the mail bags. They sated they did not
have any labels.

I spoke with the Royal Mail and ensured that labels were made available and taken
to the branch within 24 hours.

On 3" September 2010 I was contacted via e mail by North Wales police who were
trying to locate two offenders wanted for a serious sexual offence and they were
hopeful that Post Office Ltd could assist them.

I contacted them and suggested how we could assist them. They later informed me
that they had apprehended the suspects and thanked me for my assistance.

POL00165946
POL00165946
9 On 3 September 2010 I received a further inquiry from North Wales Police (St
Asaph) stating that they had received a lady had just reported identity theft and
monies had been taken from her bank account and a re direction had been set up in
her name.

I contacted the office concerned and confirmed that it was not a Post Office Ltd / N
S & I bank accounts that had been violated.

He stated that he was trying to find out how the redirection was paid for but was
confused as he had been informed that he had to obtain a RIPA in order to obtain
this information.

I explained the procedure for obtaining a redirection and that on his behalf would
pass his details onto the Royal Mail for further assistance. I duly sent an e mail to
the Royal Investigator who covers North Wales.

10 I On 13 September 2010 I received a call from a police officer (PC Hitchmough) who
was investigating a burglary in the West Midlands. He informed me that a stolen
Giro cheque had been cashed at Edgbaston Post Office and he felt that the sub
postmaster was being obstructive.

I contacted the sub postmaster and explained the situation and how we need to
help the police with any of their enquires. I then made arrangements with the sub
postmaster to visit the branch and obtain the statement from the clerk who had
cashed the giro cheque.

The officer explained that he was under pressure from his Sgt to progress the
enquiry and thanked me for my help in assisting him to do this.

4 I I work with others to 1 - I consider the impact of all that I do on the rest of the
win business. 2 - I work effectively with suppliers and
customers to achieve our goals. 3 -I seek and share
information and ideas in order to improve our
performance. 4-1 help my colleagues to achieve their

goals.
Record summary evidence relating to 41 I On 13 May 2010 I was contacted by a
specific behaviours from 121’s and Network Field Support Advisor who was
quarterly reviews conducting an audit (Westward Park). She

explained that she was unable to contact
anybody else.

I explained to the auditor what would be
required if the result of the audit led to an
investigation taking place and informed
that I would be in contact with her
throughout her time at the Post Office
branch.

POL00165946
POL00165946
In May 2010 I was contacted by North Wales Police who stated they had been
informed by the sub postmaster of Llanfachraeth branch that she had reported theft
by one of her staff members.

I explained that this branch was currently under enquiry and I would keep them
informed of all relevant details.

The sub postmaster was reinstated after suspension and I am currently liaising with
the police officer to ascertain if the evidence is sufficient for the staff member to be
arrested and charged with theft.

On 14 May 2010 I received a visit from a Merseyside police officer who was
investigating a murder. He required as a matter of urgency an explanation regarding
horizon codes.

I gave him a statement explaining each code and the statement proved helpful for
the CPS to bring a charge of murder. I have also been warned as a witness for the
forth coming trial.

On 1 June 2010 having just migrated onto the new Microsoft office, I became aware
that a number of stationary forms used by the Fraud strand had not migrated.

After obtaining the way to create these forms I cascaded the information to my
colleagues in the North team and to the Team Leader for the South team to forward
onto his team members. The information was also passed to the Casework team.

On 7 June 2010 I received an e mail from a Cheshire Police officer thanking me for
my assistance in a recent case. He commented that the result was due to our
working in tandem and was looking forward to working with me and Post Office Ltd
again.

An enquiry (POLTD 0910/0144) where an employee had been sacked by the
business and had gone to appeal. During the enquiry I kept in constant contact with
the appeals manager and was able to assist him with a number of issues. After he
had made his decision he was unable to contact the person to give them his
decision. I then obtained where the person was now living and passed the details
onto him and enabling him to give the person his decision.

On 01 July 2010 I received a request via e mail from a Royal Mail Investigation
Manager for details of a Post Office branch. Royal Mail was experiencing an outward
loss problem at the branch.

I contacted him by telephone and obtained the relevant information and after
integrating the system was able to put a possible suspect offender to them.

This information was sufficient for the RM investigator to obtain permission to test
the possible offender.

On 18 July 2010 I visited P B & A in Chesterfield with a colleague (Chris Knight) to
give an overview of the wider Security Team and how their actions assist the fraud
strand in obtaining successful prosecutions.

The visit also gave both my colleague and I an insight of the role of each individual
team based in Chesterfield and the impact their work had when we conducted any
enquires.

The visit was also used to reiterate how they need to keep a log of what they have
done, how they got the information, who they sent it to and how it was vital they had
this information as the Fraud Strand may have to obtain statements from them long
after the event, which could be up to two years in some cases.

The visit was a success and we were invited to attend one of their fraud operational
forums at a later date.

On 27" July 2010 I was contacted by a Police Officer from the NW Regional Crime
Unit requesting information regarding purchase of foreign currency by an individual.
After checking with the money laundering team I was able to advise him that SAR’s
had been received if he contacted SOCA they would have all the information to
hand and be able give him full details.

He thanked me for my swift action.

10

On 22" September 2010 I enlisted the help of Helen Dickinson a colleague in my
team to visit a branch on my behalf (POLTD/1011/0058) to assist the auditors on
my behalf.

1

During the past six months I have assisted the newest member of the team by
proof reading statements and helping put committal bundles together for example.

POL00165946
POL00165946
12

During the past six months I always update the Financial Investigation team and
this has been recognised by receiving a thank you e mail.

5 I I engage and involve 1 - I listen and talk to people to improve the way we do

things. I 2-1! communicate with people in a way that is
meaningful forthem. 3 - I help people understand
where their role fits within the business and what is
expected of them. 4-\ create an environment where
people enjoy delivering a great service.

On 1 June 2010 after migration onto Microsoft office I became aware that a number
of forms used by the Fraud strand had not migrated. I contacted the outlook support
team and obtain the required way of re creating these forms.

I then sent via e mail the relevant step by step instructions to the North Team, South
Team and Casework.

On 2 August 2010 I received an e mail for a Royal Mail Sector Collections Manager
Stating that drivers had reported that the barcode they are required to swipe at
Chorley Crown Office had been moved to the back of the counter area. If the
barcode is not swiped by the driver it will be reported as a failed collection.

I contacted the Branch Manager and the CAM to explain why it was necessary for
the barcode to be swiped and the BM explained the reason why the card was
moved.

The BM agreed to put the card back in its original place and said that the late driver
had requested it to be moved as the afternoon driver was just swiping the card and
not picking up the mail.

I reported the reason back to the collections manager to take the appropriate action
against the driver concerned.

The result of this was that the collections manager has been made aware of how his
drivers perform their collections and it can be seen on their system that all
collections are being made at the branch and not being reported as missed. Thus
mitigating the impact of claims for missing or delay mail posted at a Post Office
counter.

POL00165946
POL00165946
3 I On 6'" September 2010 at the counter training school I explained what was required
from them and explained that when we speak to customers we have to remember
not to use Post Office Ltd jargon or abbreviations.

I used the session to engage with them and involved them in a frank discussion
regarding the procedures and security within a Post Office branch.

Record summary evidence relating to specific behaviours from 121’s and ] i
quarterly reviews

6 I I support, develop & 1 - I always challenge inappropriate actions or behaviours
challenge and address conflict at any level. 2-1 seek out
development opportunities for my team and enable them
todothe same. 3 - I role model the behaviours I
expect to see in others and demonstrate change as a
result of feedback. 4- I provide honest and
constructive feedback in an appropriate way.

1 I On 13" May 2010, I received a telephone call from a Field Support Advisor, Tahir
Akbar who was at an audit at Westwood Park. There were discrepancies within the
branch and she was unable to contact the Contracts Manager. I informed her to keep
in contact with me and on her behalf I would contact the Contracts Manager.

I also explained what paperwork to retain and why we required this particular
paperwork to assist with any subsequent interview.

2 I On 5" July 2010 at the court case for POLTD/0910/138 I challenged their reasoning
for accepting only a guilty plea for false accounting and not one for theft.

I explained the reasons for continuing with a trial for theft (the integrity of the
Horizon system was in question) and that problems would occur for future cases.
The defendant denied theft and the money was missing due to the Horizon system
and if this was accepted then this argument would give credence to the current
campaign by former sub postmasters.

Both the barrister and the Judge agreed and a new trial date was fixed. .

3 I On 6 September 2010 at the counter training school I supported the trainer in
delivering the Security content of his course.

4 I On 9 September 2010 I received a call from an NFSP representative (David Nixon)
who had been contacted by one of his members regarding a problem he had with
one of his staff.

I contacted the sub postmaster (The Crescent) concerned and advised him of what
actions and further controls he could put in place to help mitigate his losses and told
him that I was available for him to contact me at any time and if necessary we would
arrange a face to face visit to help him develop the controls within his branch.

5 I On 17 September 2010 at the Chesterfield Fraud Forum meeting I arranged for a
“workbook” that they are currently using to be sent to me so that I can discuss it with
my team members to ascertain if it could be developed into a useful tool for use by
Fraud Investigators when gathering evidence in respect of a Post Office branch.
Upon receipt I will also liaise with the South Team for their feedback.

POL00165946
POL00165946
POL00165946
POL00165946

