POL00054984

POL00054984
[TIME \@ "d MMMM yyy" ] Legal Services
3° Floor
Messrs. Hugh A Cauthery 6a Eccleston Street
Solicitor LONDON
6 Queens Road SWIW 9LT

Wisbech PE13 2PB

Our Ref: CRM/264657/RGW www.royalmail.com

Dear Sirs

POST OFFICE LIMITED —v- ALISON HENDERSON
NORWICH MAGISTRATES’ COURT - 12 AUGUST 2010 AT 10 am

The above named Defendant is summoned to appear at Norwich Magistrates’ Court on 12” August 2010 to answer the charges
set out on the attached schedule. I have informed the Court of your interest.

Please attend to conduct the prosecution as my Agents on behalf of Royal Mail Group Limited and, if the Defendant indicates a
Not Guilty Plea, or does not give any indication of plea, inform the Court that the prosecution considers the case to be more
suitable for summary treatment.

Following each hearing, could you please inform this Office of the result within 48 hours so that any necessary action may be
taken. If it is not possible to let me have a written communication within this time please telephone within 48 hours and confirm
in writing as soon as possible, this is in order to comply with reporting requirements.

A copy of the initial advice given by this Office regarding prosecution and evidence is associated for your information,

The facts of the matter are as set out in the enclosed copy Advance Information Summary prepared by a Lawyer in this Office.
A second copy is enclosed for service as Advance Information on the Defence Solicitors should you receive this request direct,
together with a further copy of the summary only for use by the Probation Service, should they request it.

If the Magistrates refuse to accept jurisdiction or the Defendant elects trial please seek an adjournment of at least 8 weeks and
notify me immediately. in this event committal papers will be prepared and forwarded to this Office for approval. This Office will
serve such papers on the Court, the Defence and yourselves and request you to conduct the committal proceedings on my
behalf.

In the event of conviction I would be obliged if you could apply on behalf of Royal Mail Group Limited for an order for
compensation to be made against the Defendant in the sum of £11,957.78.

© Royal Mail 2002 — Page 1 of 2
POL00054984
POL00054984

Cont...

Please apply for an order for the payment of a contribution towards the prosecution costs by the Defendant in the sum of not
less than £200 plus at least £100 for each further attendance plus any witnesses expenses if appropriate. Please date and then
give to the Clerk the enclosed letter relating to the payment of costs and compensation.

Finally, a copy of the confidential report of the Officer in the case is enclosed. Should you require sight of the Investigation
Service's papers, please contact the Officer.

Yours faithfully

Rob G Wilson

Head of Criminal Law

Criminal Law Division

© Royal Mail 2002 — Page 2 of 2
