POL00095435

POL00095435
Alwen Lyons
sn em creer
From: WALKER, Janet
Sent: 13 June 2013 16:30
To: Alwen Lyons
Subject: Update from James
Dear Alwen,
1. Alan Bates

Interim report - James had an extremely good telephone conversation with Alan Bates today. He has asked
me to let you know that Alan was content with the proposed content of the interim report. Alan was more
concerned with what happens after this has been delivered (which is due at a meeting to take place at
Westminster on 8 July, with Ian and Ron presenting). James touched on the point Paula has made about
potentially bringing the investigation of further cases in-house within the Post Office. Alan said he was not
tirely comfortable with this, but James persuaded him to put this matter into abeyance for the time being,
sd Alan agreed. We can return to this after the interim report when we have all seen what it has to say.

Media — James also discussed media with him. We are beginning to be approached and are putting people on
hold — Private Eye, Computer Weekly, BBC Shropshire local radio. Alan said he was not responsible for the
article in this week’s Private Eye, and James believes him. Alan said he was happy not to go public on
anything while the investigation process was underway.

2. Meeting 8 July
Ian and Ron have agreed to present an interim report based on 3 cases to MPs, here at Westminster on 8
July. James has said to both them and Alan that at the moment, he is not minded to invite representatives of
the Post Office to attend, given that you will presumably only have just seen the report yourselves. Do you
have a view on this? James needs to think through this a little more, so it would be helpful if he knew your \\
thoughts.

Iam going to email Ron and Ian with all this as well, but wanted to let you know the view from this end is
good. Might you let Paula know please?

vd regards (Bawah Rogek ons)

Janet + Meolis enfin gkh.

Aig
Janet Walker + Mootirg carga I Paudor . comms

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot

MP for North East Hampshire + etter bo x Ge oa

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA movlin i
\ a e! when,
; ! rem
www.jamesarbuthnot.com + Nood a carrms aN [rene
~ Rukia updobixy ratty

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

Alice . — Cleat oloegk * Cogpirg tine - 86 shiculd!
Now ee cler Abate ceyeprry Cow as soll,
