Memo

23" June 2004

S & A Casework

c.c. Paul Whitaker

POST OFFICE LIMITED v DAVID CHARLES BLAKEY
SUB POST OFFICE ASSISTANT, RIBY SQUARE SPSO
CASE NO: 0405/0172

Read and noted, thank you.

In my opinion there is sufficient evidence to afford a realistic prospect of
conviction of Mr Blakey for an offence of theft with a low prospect of success and
for false accounting with a high prospect of success. Clearly in the absence of
any admissions from Mr Blakey for theft of the £64,435.24, then we will need to
eliminate the involvement of Mrs Blakey and other members of staff, and they will
need to give evidence (if they can do so) to implicate Mr Blakey in the preparation
of the inputs of all the daily figures for the Office on the Horizon system and that
each week he completes the Office balance and subsequently produces and
signs the weekly cash account and the other members of staff do not perform
any of the accounting procedures at the Office. This has been accepted by David
Blakey. This fact needs to be confirmed in witness statements. The witnesses
will need to confirm that they did not steal cash or falsify the accounts. Once we
can get these statements, then I would confirm that there would be a good
prospect of success to prosecute Mr Blakey for theft. The case will further be
strengthened by the further enquiries which are in hand in relation to his finances.

As stated above, once the evidence is forthcoming from other members of staff
then I consider it would be appropriate to proceed by way of summons in this
case.

This case is, in my opinion, more suitable for trial in the Crown Court. When the
decision has been taken please obtain summonses.

No further statements need be obtained at this stage.

If the Defendant should elect trial or if the Magistrates refuse jurisdiction or if a
Not Guilty plea is entered the Officer should obtain and associate all necessary
statements and exhibits. I list below the statements which appear to be
necessary in this case, but the Officer should also consider whether there are any
other areas which can usefully be covered and include any other evidence.

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ

POL00044835
POL00044835

Royal Mail

The Real Network

Legal Services
Impact House
2 Edridge Road
CROYDON
CR9Q 1PJ

POL00044835
POL00044835

Memo

Cont...

1 Statements from the Auditors.

2 A statement from the Retail Network Manager concerning the
appointment of the Subpostmaster and identifying Mrs Blakey the
Subpostmistress and producing a copy of the relevant extract of the
contract showing that it is not permitted to use Post Office funds.

3 Statements from other members of staff as discussed above.

4 A statement from Paul Graham Whitaker and Helen Dickinson outlining
their total involvement in the matter and producing all relevant exhibits
including the interviews.

5 Any other statements the Officers consider relevant.

It is intended to make application for compensation in the sum of £64,435.24.

The prosecution will be conducted by my Agents Messrs Messrs Frank Allen
Pennington, Solicitors of Hill House Regent Terrace, South
Parade, Doncaster DN1 2EE (Tel.No: Please liaise with Agents
before fixing a hearing date.

The file should be retumed to this Office four weeks prior to the hearing date so that I
may send instructions to Agents.

Jarnail A Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

Ref: CRM/243869/JSX

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group plo. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9HQ
document15
