PosT
OFFICE

POL00166843

POL00166843

Case Closure Reporting

Case Closure report must be emailed to Primary Stak
completion/submission of case.

eholder and copied to all Secondary Stakeholders & Jacqueline Whitham, on final

Case reference: POLTD/0809/0082
Date case set up: 24/07/08

Branch Name: (or other Location) Paible

Branch Code: (147869

Main Enquiry Category: (Audit

Enquiry Type: (Cash Loss

IName of Person(s) Interviewed: (if
lapplicable)

William John QUARM

[Subject type / Grade: (Delete as applicable):

SPMR

Case File associated:

lYes

Primary Stakeholder:

Brian Trotter

Secondary Stakeholder(s):

[Andrew Daley, Post Office Security, Jacqueline Whitham

Identified ‘Criminal’ Loss: £

40,277.76

laudit shortage of £50k, but £10k is known to be outst:

INB: Only losses attributable to fraud and/or where the loss is the result of suspect fraudulent activity, should be recorded. For example if the case is an

ianding/other TCs, then the Identified ‘Criminal Loss is £40k.

Potential Recovery: (method & dates) £

[None

INB: Potential recoveries include known TCs to be iss!

ued, arrangements being made for instalments, ongoing sale of property, etc - ie any known / instigatedI

lactivity undertaken to pursue recovery, which is in the pipeline.

\Actual Recovery: (method & dates) £

[None

INB: Actual recoveries include known cash repaid. kn
Ithat has been been physically received, as opposed t.

jown cheques repaid, either via funding notification, direct to Late Account, etc - ie any known recovery
‘0 being in the pipeline.

longoing?: (if yes, this form must be emailed to
relevant Financial Investigator as case will remain
lopen within their remit)

Confiscation case: No

ISPSO cases: has SPMR been made Yes
laware of loss?:

lls there a Financial Investigation still INO

Final outcome: (if prosecution include further
details below)

Prosecution

Prosecution Outcome: (include court, date &
lsentence)

William Quarm was convicted of embezzlement at Lochmaddy Sheriff Court on
29/06/10. He was given a Community Order of 150 hours.

Costs / Compensation: (Compensation
lawarded in multiple partner cases / SPSO assistant
lcases must be repaid to loser - contact PBA Banking
Duty 5309 2381 / 01246 542 381 to ensure
compensation cheques dealt with correctly).

INo compensation awarded.

Debarment: (Confirm completed and date
lforwarded to Intelligence Transaction Manager)

Yes sent to Contract Advisor Friday 22/10/10

Procedural and organizational failings
identified - (ensure PROCEDURAL FAILINGS form]
is also updated & emailed to Stakeholders)

Yes

Procedural and organizational failings
discussion held with Stakeholder(s):
(discussion must occur prior to closure - outline any
lsolutions, agreed actions, refer to next level if issues.
remain e.g Crown Office failings via BM/Operations
Manager).

Unknown

[Are there outstanding issues of a
significant nature: (e.g impact, reluctance,
refusal to implement solutions, business critical, etc
if yes, the matter should be reported in more detail to]
Team Leader)

No

[Any other comments: (NB: If DWP case then
ladditional closure form is required to be completed)

IPF in contact to state he accepted reduce plea of £27k from defence. He didn’t
request compensation as he thought we would be pursuing civilly. He
japologised for the mix up.

iSecurity Advisor in case:

Robert Daily (Raymond Grant)

Security Programme Manager (Team
Leader):

[Andrew Daley

