POL00295178
POL00295178

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd[/O=MMS/OU=EXCHANGE ADMINISTRATIVE GROUP
(FYDIBOHF23SPDLT)/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=ANGELA.VAN DEN BOGE1C5FCFE7-2672-42D9-
B324-4EA8D2814853]

Sent: Tue 01/05/2012 7:29:06 PM (UTC)
To:
Subject: IN STRICTEST CONFIDENCE - Urgent Request Please
Attachment: Branch Transfers (2).doc
Craig,

I met with Simon Baker today — he’s been asked by Alice Perkins to find a way of demonstrating that the
Horizon system is robust and not subject to “glitches” as claimed by the JFSA former spmrs. An MP is
spearheading their campaign and in particular the Hamilton (2003) case. The MP is to visit the model office
in a week or so and Simon would like us to provide an easy to understand walk through document of our
appointments and training approach — this is where you come in, no doubt ably supported by John and/or
Lin and Sue.

I attach a note that I provided to Sue a few weeks back so that she could explain to Alice what our
approach is. Would you use this as your starting point, amending and updating as you see fit. Would you
also embed the supporting documents — e.g. the training offer document Sue recently pulled together.

The claims from the JFSA former agents include that they were not aware of their contractual obligations in
terms of making good losses. What we need to do is detail the points at which they are advised of this — in
the Contract Advisors interview script; the declaration they make on transfer and the spso contract they
signed; I'll send you what information I have.

We need to have this to Simon by the end of this week so would you please pull this together and then we
can discuss in more detail.

I said we would also provide a copy of the training and audit reviews that Sue completed recently

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
i SWANSEA, SA1 1AA

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged
information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient
please contact me by reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
