POL00139731
POL00139731

Regular Call re Horizon Issues
Meeting 24/07/13

Attendees:
Team/Function Attendees
Legal Jarnail Singh
Andrew Parsons
Martin Smith
Financial Services Centre (FSC) Rod Ismay
Security Andrew Wise
Rob King
Communications Sophie Bialaszewski
Network Gayle A Peacock
Information Technology & Change Jeff Burke
Name Area Issues/Observations/Comments
Rob King Security Outlined the purpose of the meeting; to identify any
issues around the integrity of horizon from a technical
prospective and take any necessary action.
No minutes circulated, but we will be taking notes. In
scope were issues and problems the group were made
aware of.
Jarnail Singh Legal Confirmed that Rob Wilson from Royal Mail has a list of
pre separation prosecutions and will provide this to
Jarnail and the list will be up to date by next
Wednesdays Meeting.
Gayle Peacock I Network Gayle brought up issues with a cases currently on the
log
Lance Lane — Contract Terminated in 2002, £700 loss
SPMR wants the decision reversing. Branch no longer
exists as a Post Office
Nelson — Branch had been settling centrally, debt
currently on hold loss around £7.5k due to blaming
horizon. Colin Burston Contract Advisor dealing with
this issue.

POL00139731
POL00139731

Boxford — Current agent, he is not blaming the Horizon
system but saying that he has not had sufficient
training.

Pendra — SPMR resigned to avoid termination, he is
now blaming the Horizon System.

Prestbury — Current agent settle debt for £700 for
Santander transaction, now blaming Horizon

Langley — Former SPMR son making allegations —
wants the case to be fully investigated

Moelfre — Current Debt, no faith in the Horizon System.
Howden — concerned over alleged bugs in Horizon

System but does not know specifically what the issue is,
asked for extra training which is being arranged.

Rob King Security Agreed to discuss issues with Gayle Peacock offline
Jeff Burke IT and Change Due to issue on the line this was un auditable

Sophie Communication No New issues — agreed that she would feed into
Bialaszewski Simon or Suzanne from this meeting which can then tie

into the call with S Crichton

Rod Ismay FSC Raised an issue relating to a Business Banking
customer — this is a dispute between the amount
processed on the Horizon System against what the
customer says he banked. Customer has provided a
receipt to support his claim however there are concerns
over the validity of this receipt. The customer will not
provide the original copy. Entered on Horizon £180 —
Says he banked £480

Jarnail Singh Legal Issue with documents coming out of Cartwright King
which are PDF documents, these can not be password
protected, Jarnail will look into this.

They are looking at cases going back to 2010

Also looking at all cases from Scotland — all information
will be compiled on a spread sheet

Ruth Barker Communications I Mentioned piece in The Telegraph, where MPs were
vocal about Horizon and constituents, but that these
didn’t form part of the 47 cases referred to 2™ Sight.

Concerned that there was no definitive list of all cases
that MPs currently have or may in the future enquire
about.

POL00139731
POL00139731

Rob King Security Stated that we need close working relationship with
Security and Contract Teams, in all cases engagement
with contract manager as early as possible and the
teams need to be joined up.

Rob King Security Pointed out that is was likely that offenders previously

dealt with for non-Horizon issues, such as ATM
investigations may now allege a miscarriage of justice.

The following to be invited to attend future conference calls, with each team/function
responsible for ensuring a representative is present.

Team/Function

Legal

Financial Services Centre (FSC)

Security

Communications

Network

Information Technology & Change

Attendees
Rodric Williams
Jarnail Singh
Andrew Parsons
Martin Smith

Rod Ismay
Andrew Winn

Dave Posnett
Rob King

Sophie Bialaszewski
Ruth X Barker

Nick Beal
Gayle A Peacock

Steve Beddoe
Jeff Burke

Network Business Support Centre (NBSC) Kendra Dickinson
