POL00114558
POL00114558

To: Training Team

In reference to the Work Time Learning (WTL) Powerpoint Presentation and associated Brief.

I understand the aim of the slides and the Training Brief but nowhere does it state the harsh reality that
‘some’ people are dishonest and are looking for a fall-guy (or gal).

Slide 8 says ‘who could be a suspect?’ If a crewman signed for a pouch in that state and there was
money missing and then the Spmr said “it was ok when i despatched it do you think i would send
something in that state?" The Crewman WOULD be a suspect and if there was a substantial amount
missing and he / she had signed for it in that state i would suggest they would be fighting to keep their
job.

Being a suspect could result in them being arrested, having their car and home searched and then being
interviewed on tape. They would be suspended.

They would then be living with the sickening feeling that someone has had one over on them.

If a tear, a rip, a badly sealed pouch or an incorrect serial number on the Collection receipt is identified
at the counter before it has been signed for the above would not happen. Very simple.

Slide 11 says ‘crew members have a) signed for pouches they haven't received’ again i don't think states
the harsh reality that this would make them a suspect in the theft of the pouch and / or put their job on
the line.

The overall feeling I get of the presentation is that Receipting is a business issue with the message that
it's an ownership issue. With ownership comes responsibility.
If you don’t do the right thing the consequences can be life changing.

I would also like to see something about reporting failings; a PO Branch not having the right paperwork
or not having the paperwork ready. If 30 branches on your route can manage it yet 1 can't or produces
different paperwork ask yourself why?? Could it be that this Branch has discovered a great new
system......if so tell everyone and we'll adopt it.

OR is it that they are trying to hide something and are looking for that Fall-Guy??

Christopher G Knight
Fraud Investigator
Post Office Ltd

POL00114558
POL00114558

