POLO00097864
POL00097864

Message

From: WALKER, Jan GRO

Sent: 26/03/2013

To: Alwen Lyons os

Subject: RE: Second Sight note from meeting 25 March

Attachments: image001.gif; image002.png; image003.png; image004.png; image00S.png; image006.gif; image007.png
Sensitivity: Company Confidential

Hi Alwen,

Thanks for this. James was very keen his email reach you swiftly. He is in the process of reviewing my note,
which supports his recollection. You are welcome to call me to discuss, but if you would prefer to speak to
James, please let me know. Parliament breaks for Recess tonight, and it may be slightly tricky trying to pin
him down to a time for a chat until I speak to him tomorrow.

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A 0AA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

From: Alwen Lyons [mailt GRO
Sent: 26 March 2013 17:1Q 000 rr
To: WALKER, Janet

Subject: FW: Second Sight note from meeting 25 March
Sensitivity: Confidential

Janet
There seems some confusion here. Does your note of the meeting help clarify.

Thanks
Alwen
Alwen Lyons J Company Secretary

POL-0097447
POLO00097864
POL00097864

Sent: 26 March 2013 15:44

To: Susan Crichton

Cc: Alwen Lyons; Simon Baker; Ian Henderson; 'Ron Warmington’
Subject: Second Sight note from meeting 25 March

Sensitivity: Confidential

Dear Susan,

T have had sight of lan Henderson’s email to you following the meeting held at Westminster on 25 March. I
would be grateful if you would forward this message to Ruth X. Barker and Mark R. Davies, neither of whom is
known to me, nor do I have their email addresses, but as they were included in the initial circulation, I feel
they ought to be able to read my response.

The reason I am writing is that my recollection of the meeting is somewhat different to his. I plan to circulate
the note my office made of the meeting in due course, but please would you note the following comments
from me (in red), which refer directly to Ian Henderson’s points in the email he sent to you, copied below.

1. There was broad support for the concept of reporting on issues rather than individual cases — rather
than ‘support’, I think I would express this as ‘understanding’. MPs will, in the end, want to know how
their individual constituent’s case concludes, and whether it can be stated that their constituent has
been wrongly accused.

2. The MPs want Second Sight to report on a much wider range of issues in July than we had planned i.e.
not just the Horizon transaction issues. A consequence of this is that any report in July will be an
interim not a final report — this is not my recollection of what was discussed or agreed at the meeting.
Although the possibility of a July meeting was mooted, and the possibility that the report that might be
presented at that meeting might be interim in nature, no desire for a wider range of issues to be
reported on was mentioned by MPs.

3. There was broad support for the proposal to run a series of tests in the Model Office replicating the
specific scenarios reported by SPMRs — this was not really discussed. What I heard was that the Model
Office was offered to Second Sight as a way to test processes and the system by the Post Office, but
no express support — or lack of it — for its use was discussed or agreed.

4. Alan Bates reported that a significant number of SPMRs had not accepted the JFSA / POL agreement
and remained concerned about possible retribution from POL. This has resulted in under reporting of
cases and issues. (This was the first time we had been told about this) — this is true. I was rather
irritated that Alan Bates raised this without warning, and did so publicly.

5. MPs (and JFSA) reported continuing concern about “heavy handed” audit and investigations processes
and the inability within POL to differentiate between genuine issues of concern reported by SPMRs
compared with suspected fraud or theft. This is causing real hardship to SPMRs and may lead to
suicides. (This was mentioned more than once) — this was the view coming from the JFSA, not MPs. I

POL-0097447
POLO00097864
POL00097864

do not recall any mention of suicides at the meeting, but JFSA did raise the point that POL continues
even today to prosecute allegations of theft without the prior investigation or the tentativeness that
this investigation would suggest might be necessary.

6. MPs were pleased to note the personal involvement of Alice Perkins and Paula Vennells but would like
this to be extended within POL to a much more sympathetic attitude to SPMRs with problems. They felt
internal communication processes within POL were not working well. There was universal concern
about the continuing use of comments such as “we have total confidence in the Horizon system” which
are contrary to the experience reported by a number of SPMRs — I am unhappy with the way this is
expressed. There was no expression of any views from MPs or their representatives about internal
communications within the Post Office, nor that the personal involvement of staff beyond senior
management ought to be extended. That the Post Office continues to claim confidence in Horizon is
factually correct, and I emphasized that until cases were put to the Post Office which undermined this
confidence, the Post Office’s stance was understandable.

7. Inthe light of the issues now being looked at by Second Sight, POL should consider a suspension of all
current prosecutions activity until after July at least — this was not specifically discussed at the meeting,
but it may well follow from the point I make at 5 above.

8. There was widespread support for the view that it is essential the investigation continues to be
supported by POL as it was felt that this is the best opportunity to really dig into the issues and
concerns reported by SPMRs — as above, a good point. There was, however, concern that the matter
was going on so long and costing POL a lot.

To my mind, the meeting went as well as could be expected. I would not go so far as to support Ian’s opinion
that ‘extensive concern’ was expressed about the investigation and prosecution processes the Post Office is
following. My impression is that by and large, we listened to what was being presented to us by Second Sight.
Mike Wood and Kevin Barron certainly did mount some robust questioning, as they should, but to shape this
as ‘extensive concern’ is stretching things a bit, I think.

I shall circulate my briefing in due course, but would be grateful if you would note my comments above.
Yours ever,

James

Office of the Ri Hon James Arbuthnot, MP

House of Commons
London SW1A 0AA

www jJamesarbuthnot.com

From: Ian Henderson [mailt
Sent: 26 March 2013 10:25
To: ‘Susan Crichton’ pve ,
Cc: 'Alwen Lyons’; 'Simon Baker’; 'Ruth X Barker’; 'Mark R Davies’; ‘rwarming, GRO H
Subject: Meeting with MPs - 25 March 2013

Sensitivity: Confidential

POL-0097447
POLO00097864
POL00097864

CONFIDENTIAL
Susan

The meeting with MPs went reasonably well, however there was robust questioning from a number of MPs, particularly
Mike Wood MP and extensive concern expressed about POL investigation and prosecutions processes. Janet Walker will
be circulating an official minute of the meeting in due course. Whilst Shoosmiths were present throughout, they took no
part in the meeting and did not comment at any point.

l attach a copy of the Second Sight Briefing Note that was tabled at the meeting.
Headline points from the meeting were:

1. There was broad support for the concept of reporting on issues rather than individual cases

2. The MPs want Second Sight to report on a much wider range of issues in July than we had planned i.e. not just
the Horizon transaction issues. A consequence of this is that any report in July will be an interim not a final
report.

3. There was broad support for the proposal to run a series of tests in the Model Office replicating the specific
scenarios reported by SPMRs

4. Alan Bates reported that a significant number of SPMRs had not accepted the JFSA / POL agreement and
remained concerned about possible retribution from POL. This has resulted in under reporting of cases and
issues. (This was the first time we had been told about this)

5. MPs (and JFSA) reported continuing concern about “heavy handed” audit and investigations processes and the
inability within POL to differentiate between genuine issues of concern reported by SPMRs compared with
suspected fraud or theft. This is causing real hardship to SPMRs and may lead to suicides. (This was mentioned
more than once)

6. MPs were pleased to note the personal involvement of Alice Perkins and Paula Vennells but would like this to
be extended within POL to a much more sympathetic attitude to SPMRs with problems. They felt internal
communication processes within POL were not working well. There was universal concern about the continuing
use of comments such as “we have total confidence in the Horizon system” which are contrary to the experience
reported by a number of SPMRs.

7. In the light of the issues now being looked at by Second Sight, POL should consider a suspension of all current
prosecutions activity until after July at least

8. There was widespread support for the view that it is essential the investigation continues to be supported by
POL as it was felt that this is the best opportunity to really dig into the issues and concerns reported by SPMRs.

I will circulate Janet Walkers note of the meeting as soon as I receive it
With best wishes

Ian R Henderson CCE CISA FCA
Advanced Forensics - London, UK

Forensic computing expert witness and electronic disclosure specialist

Website: http://advancedforensics.com
LinkedIn: http://linkedin.com/in/forensicgod
Twitter: http://twitter.com/forensicgod

POL-0097447
POLO00097864
POL00097864

CONFIDENTIALITY. This email and any attachments are confide,
If you are not the intended recipient, please notify me at
delete the email and any attachments. .

de
vised use,
used by an

notify the
n checked for vir

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender by reply email and then delete this email from your system. Any views or opinions
expressed within this email are solely those of the sender, unless otherwise specifically stated.

POST OFFICE LIMITED is registered in England and Wales no 2154540. Registered Office: 148 OLD STREET,
LONDON EC1V 9HQ.

JUHI OSS U ISO ISIS OBIS IIS ISIS IIA IOI III IISA IIIA TISAI III ATI

it in er:

POL-0097447
