POL00188991
POL00188991

From:

Sent:

To: Lesley J Sewellf
Subject: FW: Email summary
Attachment: responses to emails.doc

Lesley, Alwen
As a heads up Ron mentioned to today that he was going to quote one of the emails in the preliminary report.

He was going to quote “Although it is rarely done it is possible to journal from branch cash accounts. There are
possible P&BA concerns about
how this would be perceived and how disputes would be resolved.”

I hope I have convinced him otherwise, however he is being unpredictable right now and I can’t guarantee where he
will end up. This quote is clearly referring to POLSAP and not horizon, he now understands that, but lan and Ron are
still thinking though their position on whether to include it.

Simon

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 25 June 2013 16:45

To: Ron Warmington; Ian Henderson...
Cc: Lesley J Sewell; Alwen Lyons:
Subject: Email summary

Ron, lan
Following the discussion on the emails attached document details my findings.
In summary the emails fall into three categories

1. The email is referring to POLSAP, not horizon

2. The email is referring to reference data, this is managed by a different team, with no connection to the
testing team, apart from the fact that some are based in Bracknell (but a different part of the building)

3. The email is about testing TCs in the test environment as part of Horizon release 5 which contained changes
that required the TC process to be tested.

I took a couple actions away from our discussion.
1. For point 1 above, confirm how changes to POLSAP impact sub postmasters and Horizon
2. For point 3 above, confirm that the FAD codes used were test branches.

For action 1, I can confirm that there no automatic interfaces from POLSAP to Horizon. Any changes to POLSAP
that need to be reflected in Horizon are done by the TC process.

For action 2, I have investigated the process where reference data is feed into the test system, and the reference
data system feeds data to both Horizon live and Horizon test so the FAD codes are the same in both systems.

Simon Baker Head of Business Change and Assurance

Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ

POL00188991
POL00188991

postoffice-co'u
@postofficenews

