Horizon Programme
Approach to Target Testing Prior to NR2 Release Authorisation Board (RAB)
Draft Paper @ 17" March 1999
Contents

. Purpose of Paper

. Status at end of MOT/E2E Run
. Target Testing Approach
Adequacy of Target Testing

. Stability of the System

. Agreement of the KPR

. Next Steps

NAW WN

1. Purpose of Paper

This paper explains the Horizon rationale and approach to the ‘target testing period’
that is planned to take place between the end of MOT and the NR2 RAB. This period
starts on 15" March and is planned to end at the RAB on 7" April 1999. The intent of
this period is to clear the faults arising from MOT/E2E which are considered by the
sponsors as essential to be resolved before entry into the period of live running. Live
running is planned to commence on 12" April with the period of migration of the
existing 200 POCL offices that are running Release 1c. Following the data centre
migration weekend (scheduled for 8/9" May), the Programme enters the formal period
of live trial from 10" May.

There are a number of questions that need to be addressed in setting out the approach

to target testing. These are as follows:

1. Can the required incidents be corrected and retested in the available time ?

2. Is the target testing phase adequate before entry to live running (rather than a
Surther full cycle) ?

3. Can the sponsors be confident that the correction of these incidents will not
destabilise the system (given the restricted regression testing that can be
undertaken) ?

4. Will the sponsors find acceptable (at least for entry to live trial) the business
impact of those outstanding incidents that are not cleared by target testing, and
agree to them being placed on the KPR ?

Ss tanpaeh of prtig ad inlet duets bute Tor

With regard to the last question the sponsors will also need to considered whether any

necessary user guide changes or procedural workarounds be implemented in time as a

result of placing items on the KPR. They will also need to be confident that

acceptance can be achieved on the basis of the solution that is delivered for live trial.

For a successful RAB, the answer to each of the above questions must be ‘Yes’. If the
answer to any of them is ‘No’ then the current plan for the delivery of the POCL and

POL00142309
POL00142309

POL-0143563
POL00142309
POL00142309

Child Benefit Programme stream into national rollout will meet with delay and this
will have a knock-on effect onto the multi-benefit stream as well.

Although a good understanding is already available of the results of the MOT/E2E
testing the full analysis and draft closure reports will not be available until about the
19" March. As more information becomes available the details of this assessment will
be updated accordingly.

It is important to both POCL and CAPS, however, to establish as soon as possible
whether the current planning assumptions are still valid following completion of
MOT/E2E. This paper therefore sets out an assessment of the adequacy of the target
testing approach and whether this will support the current planning assumptions.

2. Status at End of MOT/E2E Run

The status may be summarised as follows:

® Both of these cycles ran day-for-day without serious operational delays

e All planned test conditions were covered by both CAPS and Horizon with a few
minor exceptions

e In parallel to MOT/E2E two other parallel POCL test streams, Live Reference Data
Proving and Migration Pre-proving, have completed successfully with no
outstanding faults that require to be fixed before the RAB

¢ The witnessing of outstanding incidents from previous cycles showed a high
success rate (187 passes out of 198 test incidents)

¢ There are currently 8 high priority incidents which are essential to be fixed by the
RAB and for entry to live trial

« There are approximately 130 medium priority incidents which are defined as not
necessary to be fixed for the start of live trial but need to be addressed prior to
national rollout

® The Technical & Security Testing (TS&T) phase is now in regression testing and
there are currently 22 incidents outstanding which are due to be witnessed before
the RAB

¢ There are currently 94 items on the KPR but these are largely low priority
problems and to date there is a provisionally agreed position with the sponsors on
about 60 of them with no major issues outstanding. The current KPR excludes
those incidents from MOT, E2E and (TS&T) which will not be resolved in target
testing.

Pathway have informed us that all high priority incidents are or will be available for

target testing. The position on medium incidents may be summarised as follows:

® the review and rating of these incidents has involved the CAPS and Horizon tests
teams, Horizon Product Assurance, the POCL (end-to-end) Co-ordination team,
and BA validators and auditors. They are still to be confirmed with the POCL
Business Assurance team

e the review to date has determined that each of these incidents in isolation is not
critical for the RAB (which it is why it is medium)

POL-0143563
POL00142309

POL00142309

© the cumulative number of these incidents does however raise a concern and the

assessment teams would prefer to see a significant number (approximately 60) of

them cleared before the RAB
e Pathway have been progressively fixing these more important medium incidents

during MOT execution and currently 57 of these 60 incidents will be available for

target testing (the other 3 are still in investigation)
It must be stressed that the review process classed medium incidents as not essential ar
for live trial. Clearly it is desirable that a number of these should be fixed and it is also grnnades
clear that fixes will be available in time for target testing. But the existence of from
numbers of incidents in this category is not in itself an argument for not entering the ges
live trial. hun +

The following sections address the key questions raised in section 1 above.

3. Target Testing Approach

The target testing phase will be adequate to retest the current list of high and
medium priority incidents for the following reasons:

The target testing scope and content have been specifically developed during the
execution of MOT/E2E to test these incidents

As noted above nearly all the incidents already have a Pathway fix

There is only one significant area of functionality where there is a ‘cluster’ of
related incidents, which is BES fallback, and this will be a major area of focus in
the target test

Given the way that reference data is used to apply generic processing to individual
products it is unnecessary, given the evidence of previous runs, to run a wide range
of products in the target test

Using four offices and a logical 12 day cycle will provide the required test
coverage from the counter through to the POCL systems

Test resources will be allocated to each office and each ‘office team’ will have to
clear on average 4 or less incidents per day

As limited counter transaction volumes are required to prove these incidents the 12
day cycle can actually be run within 7 days (i.e. 2 or more ‘end-of-day runs can be
compressed into a one actual day)

The 12 day cycle will be sufficient to identify any end-to-end financial integrity
errors with TIP

All mandatory reports will be run in each office

A cash account will be produced for each office

A3 week cash account will be run

Given the evidence of the MOT run the current success rate of Pathway fixes is
187 out of 198 retests (around 95%). This suggest that there may be around half a
dozen incidents in target testing that may need a refix and retest. Depending on
when they are found during the target test there will be 1 to 2 weeks in which to
resolve them. Experience indicates this should be achievable. There is of course
some risk that target testing may not resolve all the faults

POL-0143563
POL00142309
POL00142309

e The only ‘module’ which is excluded from the target test is OBCS as there are no
incidents here requiring retest and no known regression issues.

4, Adequacy of Target Testing (versus A Further Cycle)

The view of the Horizon and POCL test teams is that a further full cycle is not

necessary for the following reasons:

¢ while there have been up to 200 incidents raised this should not obscure the fact
that the overall system is running well enough in their view to start a live trial
phase, given resolution of the specified target test incidents. (This is evidenced by
the low number of high priority incidents that have occurred and the number of test
conditions that were proved)

e all the key transactions and reports are now working and the interface files are
stable

« the counter system is performing satisfactorily in the Usability Trial in
Twickenham

¢ the incidents are spread through this large system and are typically localised issues
with only BES fallback still showing a cluster of problems

* the time and effort and delay of a further MOT and E2E run is not worth the
limited additional value that will be obtained from it

e the number and severity of CAPS related incidents clearly does not require a
further full cycle from their side

5. System Stability

There is always a risk that the fixing of errors test will introduce new errors. From the
Horizon perspective the following factors have been taken into account in deciding
that only a limited amount of regression testing will be necessary:

1. The majority of faults that have emerged in MOT have not been due to regression

type failures but to the uncovering of generally more detailed errors that had been

obscured in earlier runs. There are particular examples of this in the areas of:

e TIP file contents - complete checks now undertaken in MOT of all field contents

e Counter reports - significant problems have been removed which have revealed
some less important discrepancies

e Stock unit and cash account balancing - now these are working in terms of
financial integrity a number of lower level faults have become clear

2. In addition a number of the more significant incidents (about 20) in MOT arose in

the ‘newer’ areas of the system, specifically:

e BES fallback which was only introduced in MOR3 and which appeared still had
some outstanding problems at the end of pre-proving which were not cleared fully
for MOT

e Training mode which has been integrated for the first time in the MOT run
although it had been successfully run in ‘standalone’ mode

3. Horizon should take account of Pathway’s own regression runs which are being
conducted in parallel e.g.

POL-0143563
POL00142309
POL00142309

« Pathway have been regression testing fixes in the BIT environment as they have
been produced during MOT (and will continue to do so throughout the period of
live trial)

« Pathway will be running a specific regression test including all target test fixes
between 16" and 23% March. (There will be 7 different environments running tests
during this period)

Given the above considerations the Horizon team do not believe that the issue of

regression would be best addressed by another full cycle of MOT and E2E. A

preferred approach would be as follows:

e to complete the target testing as discussed above

@ to seek RAB approval on 7" April to proceed to 1c to NR2 counter migration on
the target date of 12" April

® to continue with BIT regression runs in April

© to undertake the CAPS 3.5/NR2 regression test in April as planned which will
enable CAPS to continue testing with Pathway and a te oe my roy,
ito use the start of multi-benefit testing in April to continue the wider proving of the

system

to recognise that the live experience of 1c to NR2 migration between 12" April and
7" May will provide a better end-user view of system quality and performance and
that this will be evaluated before undertaking the datacentre migration and the start
of the live trial

6. Agreement of Known Problem Register

It should be noted that the current KPR and the incidents from MOT and E2E have
already been widely reviewed, as noted above, and it is not expected that major
differences in assessment will arise in the next week from those already made on
these incidents. Therefore although there is a risk that additional incidents could be
re-prioritised for fixing before RAB approval it is believed this risk is manageable.

All incidents that are not cleared in target testing will be proposed for inclusion in the
KPR. It will be necessary for the sponsors to agree the business impact of these items
and confirm the decision to exclude them from target testing. They will also need to
agree any procedural workarounds that can be delivered in time for the live trial.

BA have already reviewed the incidents that have arisen in the POCL domain for any
knock-on effects on BA. This has not raised any significant issues.

A full review is planned from Friday 19 March to Tuesday 23" March of all
proposed KPR items. Any significant issues that arise from this review will be
escalated to the Horizon Programme Director.

= dled K comne date SO
ast doa 5 nes ve ST

POL-0143563
POL00142309
POL00142309

7. Next Steps

Over the next few days the following steps are planned:

« Complete the analysis of MOT/E2E and draft the closure reports

« Complete the analysis of the incidents by functional area to highlight any potential
priorities for regression testing

e Confirm the list of faults for target testing

e Perform the full review of the proposed KPR

* Confirm and agree the detailed test plans prior to RAB and prior to data centre
migration and live trial

POL-0143563
