End to End Service Report
Service Management

Client: Post Office Ltd

Laura Sharpe, George Kincaid, Mick Conlon and Phil Marland

Company:
Reference:
Version:

Date of publication:

PinkRoccade UK
POL/758R

1.0 (Final)

May 20, 2002

POL00394097
POL00394097

PinkRoccade
Document Control

Reference Number:

Document Title:
Client:
Version Number:

Date of Publication:

Author(s):

Quality Assurance:
Filename:
Number of Pages:

POL/758R

End to End Service Report
Post Office Ltd

1.0 (Final)
May 20, 2002

Laura Sharpe, George Kincaid, Mick Conlon and

Phil Marland
Chris Miles

PO E2E SM Report V1.0 (Final)
94 Including preliminaries & appendices

Security Classification: Commercially

Document History

Confidential

Version Recipient Release Release Date

Number Description

0.2 Draft Chris Miles Draft for review 17/05/02

0.3 Draft Laura Sharpe QA feedback for I 17/05/02
review

1.0 Final Post Office Ltd Final report 20/05/02

Additional Documentation

Document Name Recipient Release Release Date
Description

Company:
Reference:
Version:

Date of publication:

PinkRoccade UK
POL/758R
1.0 (Final)

May 20, 2002

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

Acknowledgements

PinkRoccade UK Consulting would like to acknowledge the high level of co-
operation, openness and general communication shown by the interviewees
within Post Office Limited throughout the compilation this report.

Management Summary

Post Office Limited (POL) will be launching the Network Banking Service in April
2003. In order to ensure the ongoing success of this service, POL has
recognised the need for improved Service Management processes to support
Network Banking from its launch date.

PinkRoccade UK Ltd were invited by POL to undertake a 6 week study to
consider, assess and recommend an optimum Service Management framework
to support the environment leading up to and post Network Banking. This ‘ideal
solution’ will span the multi-vendor environment encompassing such features as:

+ A Technical Service Desk (TSD), to form a single point of contact for the
technical aspects of the Service Management framework.

+ Amore centralised approach to Service Management.

+ Integration between existing tool sets

+ The production of End-to-End management information across all Service
Management disciplines.

+ Definition of clearer roles and responsibilities

This report details the results of this work.

High Level Recommendations

The introduction of the Network Banking service will involve a period of significant
change. The current Service Management processes within POL are not
sufficiently mature to support this new service. Proven industry studies show that
insufficient investment within the areas of Service Management at such times can
lead to lost revenue through increased downtime of critical business services.

a) POL should invest in an End-to-End Service Improvement Programme
(SIP) focusing on the People, Process and Technologies within the
support environment. A project plan should be devised that embraces the
recommendations within this report. This plan should be in the form of a
properly constituted project, being managed using proven methodologies
such as PRINCE2. The activities contained within this plan should be
prioritised in the order most beneficial to POL.

Reference: POLI758R iii
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

b) The Service Management processes within POL are currently fragmented
across the business. This contributes to the following factors: -

. Poor communication between teams.
. No overall (end-to-end) view of each process areas.
. Areas of responsibility and ownership are unclear.

To improve performance, a rationalisation exercise should be conducted
that creates single teams responsible for the end-to-end Service
Management processes under one Directorate.

c) Consideration should be given to the initiation of a work package to review
the tool sets that support the Service Management processes. The
objectives of this work package are to identify the options available to
POL for establishing an integrated tool set across the business, or at least
providing a level of Integration between the existing tools.

Reference: POLI758R iv
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

Indicative Costing

An indicative cost model has been produced by PinkRoccade to provide
budgetary guidelines for the Service Improvement Programme. Each process
area has been assessed and guidelines are provided for the Achievable,
Desirable and Ultimate levels of improvement. These are summarised in the
table below and can be seen in more detail in the costing section of this report:

Current Achievable Desired Solution Ultimate Solution
Process Solution (Cost) (Cost) (Cost)
Maturity:
Process:
Incident Controf PR £49,500 £49,500 £99,000
PO £18,000 £18,000 £36,000
Problem Control PR £49,500 £49,500 £99,000
PO £18,000 £18,000 £36,000
Change Awareness PR £49,500 £49,500 £99,000
PO £36,000 £36,000 £54,000
Configuration _Iinitiation PR £72,000 £144,000 £216,000
PO £36,000 £72,000 £108,000
Release Control PR £49,500 £49,500 £49,500
PO £18,000 £18,000 £18,000
SLM Control PR £24,750 £24,750 £72,000
PO £18,000 £18,000 £36,000
Availability Absent PR £72,000 £72,000 £120,000
PO £18,000 £18,000 £54,000
Capacity Absent PR £49,500 £49,500 £82,500
PO £18,000 £18,000 £54,000
IBC Awareness+ PR £24,750 £24,750 £49,500
PO £18,000 £18,000 £36,000
Tools £144,000 £216,000 £288,000
Project Costs:
Managing Consultant £121,500 £162,000 £243,000
Project Support £58,500 £78,000 £117,000
Director £9,000 £18,000 £27,000
Total PR £774,000 £987,000 £1,561,500
Discounted £530,600 £669,050 £1,042,475
Total PO £198,000 £234,000 £432,000
[Grand Total £728,600 £903,050 £1,474,475

Notes: 1. POL costs are based on an estimate of £300 per day for internal resource
(denoted as PO)
2. PinkRoccade costs are based on the rate card minus the agreed discount
(denoted as PR)

Reference: POLI758R. v
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

Summary of Recommendations

The main recommendations, broken down by process, from this initial piece of
work are as follows, for further details refer to the main body of this report.

Service Desk and Incident Management

Implement a Technical Service Desk (TSD) to manage and take ownership of
technical Incidents on behalf of POL. This desk will provide a skilled single
point of contact for technical support requests.

Formal relationships between Service Management processes needs to be
established.

Configuration Management

POL should outsource the technical Configuration Management (CM) function
to the TSD, enabling them to concentrate on their core business, whilst still
being provided with the necessary overall picture of the technical infrastructure
that Network Banking presents. The outsourced CM function should manage a
centralised CMDB using an appropriate support tool — to be agreed between
TSD and POL.

A Configuration Manager role should exist within the TSD. The role &
responsibilities should be clearly defined between POL and the 3% party
supplying the TSD, with interfaces and expected reporting requirements
agreed and understood by both parties.

Problem Management

The role of Problem Management needs to be expanded to include future
internal and external IT suppliers to POL.

POL has undergone rapid changes over the last 12 months, it is essential
that all documentation related to Problem Management be reviewed and
updated with all the new name changes to reflect the current organisation.
The Problem Incident Advisor (PIA) roles and the Process Efficiency (PE)
analyst role should be combined to produce a single team that will effectively
advise and mentor branches on operating procedures. It would also insure
single ownership of improvements to be communicated to the branches.
Clear lines of demarcation of roles and responsibilities need to be agreed
between the Incident Management team and the Problem Management
team, detailing how trend reporting and progression is accomplished.

The Problem Management team does not have sight of a Forward Schedule
of Change detailing all the planned changes to the IT Infrastructure of POL.

Reference: POLI758R vi
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

A review of how changes are communicated to Problem Management needs
to take place.

Working hours between Service Desks and Problem Management need to be
synchronised, to ensure that disparity between operating times no longer
exists. This will become more critical as the services offered to the branches
increase with real time banking.

Change and Release Management

Change Management should be centrally implemented and controlled within
the Change and IS Directorate. However, Network Support should maintain
final approval for releasing change into the Network Banking environment.

A fully ITIL compliant Change Advisory Board (CAB) should be implemented
Standard Key Performance Indicators should be defined and agreed to
measure the quality of Change Management.

Communication of changes is crucial. The TSD and NBSC should be made
aware of all scheduled changes. The business should be aware of all non-
operational changes where there is a risk of business impact.

Availability Management

An Availability Manager role should be assigned to a suitable candidate within
the Network Support area. This person will be responsible for the initial
definition of the role and the creation of a formal Availability process within
POL.

The focus of Availability targets should be reviewed and consideration given
to broadening the scope to include an end to end view of service availability.
Appropriate tools should be investigated and implemented to aid the
measurement of end to end component availability. This information will
inform supplier meetings when discussing performance and reliability of
supplied hardware and software. Where possible suppliers should supply
accurate availability information at service reviews.

Capacity Management

Consideration should be given to creating a process owner for the Capacity
Management function. It is recommended that this role be allocated to a
suitable candidate within the Operations Directorate. The resources currently
allocated to this role for each platform should feed into this area. This would
enable a picture of capacity utilisation, performance and requirmeents across
all platforms to be established.

A single Capacity Plan should be compiled within the framework of the above
Capacity Management process as it relates to and is appropriate for POL.
This plan should encompass all platforms and all connectivity within the
Network Banking environment through to the end users. This would ensure
that the issues were considered and adopted from the beginning. It would

Reference: POLI758R vii
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

also ensure that related Service Management processes are considered and
interfaces built between them.

Consideration should be given to the development of an End to End capacity
model for the Network Banking environment.

Steps should be taken to ensure that the POL Capacity Management function
becomes involved in the lifecycle of projects to assess and advise on capacity
requirements, to improve cost effectiveness, utilisation of resources and
reduce the possibility of bottlenecks.

IT Service Continuity Management

To further strengthen the process, more focus should be placed on
understanding the technical continuity measures employed by each of the
suppliers. This will require the development of additional technical skills
within the team.

The minimum levels of operation to be delivered in the event of a disaster
should be communicated to the business. This will ensure that expectations
of both the business and the branches are managed.

Consideration should also be given to carrying out a simulated disaster to
measure to assess the effectiveness of each supplier's continuity
arrangements.

POL should maintain the final approval of the invocation of supplier disaster
recovery procedures.

Service Level Management

SLM is a critical function and should continue to be totally owned and
controlled by NS for the NB service. However the SLM function may employ
the Fujitsu Services TSD to collect service data on its’ behalf from the various
suppliers.

A comprehensive project plan (PRINCE2) for managing the SLM functions for
NB needs to be instigated.

Consideration should be given to appointing a NB service manager who will
ensure End to End protection and assurance of the service on behalf of the
customers.

Reference: POLI758R viii
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

Table of Contents

1 Introduction

2 Ideal Service Management Solution

2.1 Functional Specification, Roles & Responsibilities

Service Desk & Incident Management.
Problem Management sees
Configuration Management.

Change Management
Release Managemen
Capacity Management .
Availability Management
Business Continuity Management
Service Level Management

2.2 ‘Definition of the Integration Options .
2.2.1 Stage 1
2.2.2 Stage 2

3. Gap Analysis .

RRNNNNNWN -
ooVonaRoNE

oO

3.1 Configuration Management
3.1.1 ITIL Description
3.1.2 Introduction to Configuration Management.
3.1.3. Conclusions...
3.1.4 Recommendations .

3.2 Service Desk / Incident Management
3.2.1 ITIL Description
3.2.2 Introduction to Service Desk
3.2.3. Conclusions...
3.2.4. Recommendations .

3.3. Problem Management.
3.3.1 ITIL Description..
3.3.2 Introduction to Problem Management
3.3.3. Conclusions...
3.3.4. Recommendations .

3.4. Change & Release Management
3.4.1 ITIL Description
3.4.2 Introduction to Change & Release Management.
3.4.3. Conclusions ..
3.4.4 Recommendations .

3.5 Availability Management
3.5.1 ITIL Description
3.5.2 Introduction to Availability Management.
3.5.3 Conclusions .

Reference: POLI758R I
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

3.5.4 Recommendations .
3.6 Capacity Management
3.6.1 ITIL Description..
3.6.2 Introduction to Capacity Management.
3.6.3 Conclusions...
3.6.4 Recommendations .
3.7 IT Service Continuity Management
3.7.1 ITIL Description wee 75
3.7.2 Introduction to IT Service Continuity Management ..
3.7.3. Conclusions .
3.7.4 Recommendations .
3.8 Service Level Management .
3.8.1 ITIL Description
3.8.2 History of Service Level Management within Post Office Ltd (POL) .
3.8.3 Introduction to Service Level Management ..
3.8.4 Conclusions...
3.8.5 Recommendations .

4

4.1 Cost Matrix
APPENDIX A - ITIL Best Practice Model

6

Reference: POLI758R itt
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

1 Introduction

The Network Support (NS) function within Post Office Limited (POL) is
responsible for the support of Post Office branches throughout the UK, providing
service to some 17,000 outlets and 38,000 counter terminals.

Broadly, this support service is divided as follows:

+ Any support relating to the Horizons desktop system is provided by Fujitsu
Services

+ Any other support, for example relating to Post Office products, processes
and service requests, is provided directly by NS

The introduction of Network Banking in April 2003 will significantly change the
nature of the support services to be provided by NS. These changes will include:

+ Potential increase in volume of calls

+ The need for more immediate resolution of calls — since the service desk
will be supporting real time transactions rather than batch

+ The need to support a wider range of services, provided via multiple
suppliers

+ More complex calls

+ Management of multiple supplier contracts and Service Level Agreements

+ Complex Problem & Change Management activities potentially involving
multiple suppliers

+ Potential direct links with the customers on the street as well as PO
branches

On 10 April 2002 Phil Marland, Chris Miles and Tony Price from PinkRoccade
presented to Post Office Ltd senior management possible options for a new NS
structure (specifically Service Desk) to focus any subsequent E2E Service
Management solution work. A preferred option was selected by POL of a
separate, possibly outsourced, Technical Service Desk. Since this selection it
has been confirmed that it is expected to outsource the Technical Service Desk
to Fujitsu Services.

PinkRoccade were asked to assist in the design of an End to End Service
Management solution centred on the preferred option as detailed above,
ensuring as far as possible that this solution factors in other NB or company-wide
initiatives which are currently being managed.

Our approach encompassed the following key areas upon which this report is
based:

+ Recommendation of an End to End Service Management Solution to
manage the Preferred Option (i.e. Fujitsu Services managed Technical
Service Desk);

+ Consideration of optimal Service Management Requirements for
recommended solution;

Reference: POLI758R 3
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

+ GAP analysis on existing NS Service Management process practice with
recommendations to overcome any disparity;

* High level GAP analysis and consideration of tool requirement to support
recommended End to End Service Management solution.

Reference: POLI758R 4
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

2 Ideal Service Management Solution

2.1 Functional Specification, Roles & Responsibilities

Functional Specification, Roles & Responsibilities of each Service Management
Discipline

2.1.1 Service Desk & Incident Management

POL will retain the operational management of the business-related Service
Desks for Network Banking Support Centre (NBSC) and the Post Office External
Service Desk (POEx), utilising the existing customer supplier relationship
between Network Support (NS) and Customer Management (CM).

POL is proposing to outsource the Technical Service Desk to a 3rd party with
expertise in POL's existing technology and future technology requirements. The
TSD will act as a skilled Service Desk and be responsible for incident resolution
and incident management for the proposed new and existing technology for the
Network Banking project.

The POEx Service Desk will be the first point of contact for the Public for
incidents relating to the Card Account, any incidents that cannot be resolved by
POEx will be passed to Electronic Data Systems (EDS). It is assumed that
should there be any technical difficulties experienced by the Public whilst using
their cards, they will escalate the incident to Post Office Staff at the counter
where the incident has occurred. This will then be reported via the Interactive
Voice Response (IVR) system as the Single Point of Contact (SPOC) utilised by
the business to report technical incidents to the Technical Service Desk (TSD) for
investigation or resolution.

The TSD will be the operational first point of contact for all IT incidents reported
by the business. Where the TSD is unable to resolve the incidents, the incidents

Reference: POLI758R 5
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

will be passed to the 3rd party vendor contracted to supply and support the new
or existing technology for Network Banking (NB). The individual vendors will be
responsible for their own incident management processes, with TSD responsible
for the overall management of an incident during its life cycle.

3" party vendors will be responsible for progressing all incidents passed to them
by the TSD. Where necessary 3rd party vendors may need to work together to
investigate an incident managed by TSD. Where an incident occurs of
significant impact or multiple incidents are identified, these incidents will become
problems and escalated to and managed by the NS problem management team.

TSD will be responsible for the Management Reporting on Incident Management
to NBSC, as they will be the central point of contact for technical issues with
overall responsibility for the resolution of incidents.

2.1.1.1 Scope of process:

All customer calls to the Service Desks will result in an incident being raised.

The Service Desk will cover the following broad categories of incidents:

+ IT systems (hardware/software) for Network Banking
+ Telecommunications for Network Banking

2.1.1.2 Roles & Responsibilities (Post Office & Supplier):

The following suggested list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is
designed to give a clear indication of the roles required within the Service Desk
function. Roles and responsibilities similar to these should also exist within each
of the technical solution suppliers and the interfaces between the supplier and
POL should be clearly defined:

Role Responsil S

NS (Post Office - + Own the overall Incident Management framework

Customer) process flow for end to end incident life cycles

and the business derived
+ Regularly check for supplier dependencies

clearly documented, up-to-date and available

understood and agreed by both parties
incident management toolset(s)

Limited (POL) with direct impact to the Suppliers
+ Provide telephony system for the SPOC IVR

* Continually monitor 'value for money’, deliverables

ensure all procedures, functions and processes are

+ Make certain that the contractual terms,
deliverables and chargeable activities are clearly

+ Provide guidance or supply on integrating the

* Notification of changes relating to Post Office

CM (Supplier - Post Office)

Own internal Incident Management Process

Reference: POL758R. 6
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

Provide the services outlined to NS in SLAs
Provide Management Reporting to NS

Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within
the area

EDS (Supplier - 3° Party)

Owns internal Incident Management Process
Provide Management Reporting to NS

Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within
the area

TSD (Supplier - 3° Party)

Owns internal Incident Management Process
Provide Management Reporting to NS

Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within
the area

Vendor Reporting Into TSD
(Supplier - 3° Party)

Owns internal Incident Management Process
Provide Management Reporting to TSD

Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within
the area

Telephony (Supplier - 37
Party)

Owns internal Incident Management Process
Provide Management Reporting to NS

Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within
the area

2.1.1.3 Process Inputs:

+ Business Requirements
+ Management Reporting

+ Service Requirements

+ Post Office Guidelines on Standards

* Training Needs

+ Integrated Service Management Tool Set
+ Organisational and Business Changes

2.1.1.4 Process Outputs:

* A service where logging of all POL's incidents are on an Incident

Management system

+ Aservice, which has POL's incidents, logged quickly and correctly

+ Aservice which provides an effective resolution of all reported Incidents

+ Complete and accurate incident quality records

* Escalation as required in accordance with Priority, Service Level
Agreements or business impact as stated by NS

+ Incident desk performance metrics as defined by NS

+ Management Information/reports as defined by NS

+ Performance reports against formal target (Service Level Agreements

SLA’s)

Reference: POLI758R.

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

2.1.1.5 Recommended Key Performance Indicators (KPI's)

Listed below are metrics that can be utilised for Key Performance Indicators:

+ Mean time to pick up call from service desk call queues

+ Abandonment rate of telephone calls

+ Call volumes per service desk analyst

+ Percentage reduction in average time to respond to a call assistance from
the first-line operatives

+ Percentage increase in the incidents resolved by first line operatives

+ Percentage increase in the incidents resolved by first line operatives on
first response

+ Percentage reduction of incidents incorrectly assigned

+ Percentage reduction of incidents incorrectly categorised

+ Reduced mean elapsed time for resolution or circumvention of incidents
broken down by impact code

+ Increased percentage of incidents resolved within agreed (in SLAs)
response times by impact code

+ Reduction in the service unavailability caused by incidents

+ Increased percentage of incidents resolved within target times by priority

+ Increased percentage of incidents resolved within target times by
category

+ Percentage reduction in the average time for the second line 3rd_ party
vendor to respond

+ Reduction of incident backlog

+ Percentage reduction in incidents reopened

+ Percentage reduction in the overall average time to resolve incidents

+ Reduction in the number of incidents requiring more than one second line
3rd party vendor

+ Percentage reduction in average cost of handling incidents

+ Improved percentage of the business incidents dealt with first line
operatives

+ Percentage improvement in average number of incidents handled by each
first line operative

+ No delays in the production of management reports

+ Improved scores on the Customer Satisfaction Surveys CSS

+ Percentage improvements in CSS responses on the _ Incident
Management Service

+ Percentage reduction in the length of queue time waiting for Service Desk
response

+ Percentage reduction in the number of lost Service Desk calls

+ Percentage reduction of the number of the revised business instructions
issued

Reference: POL758R. 8
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

2.1.2 Problem Management

The Network Banking Support Centre (NBSC) will be responsible and have
ownership for the Problem Management process for both reactive and proactive
Problem Management.

Post offee

2 1

oe

nase
I Problem Mgt

*

eM Unk " eps
Probiem Mgt Probie Nt Problem Mgt Probie Mgt

em ink 5
Service Desk Service Desk Serve Desk

I I I J = I

HSH
Problem Mgt

HSH
Service Desk

to wesc
v se a
10
Problem Mgt sPoc semceberk

i

Telephoney
Problem Mgt

a

It is envisaged that the NBSC Problem Management team will be the central
point of contact for all suppliers and business areas impacted by either an IT or
Business problem. NBSC Problem Management will manage reactively by
utilising a Major Incident Team and Major Incident process. It will manage
proactively Problem Management through Problem Management forums.

(»

te2

The Major Incident Teams will consist of the NBSC Problem Manager and
identified members of POL staff that are required to effectively manage the
Incident. Possible team members would be departmental representatives for
Public Relations, Fraud, Service Desk(s) Team Leaders, 3 Party Problem
Managers (where appropriate) and Representatives of Technical Teams
responsible for the investigation of the incident. Due to the distributed nature of

Reference: POLI758R. 9
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

POL and it's suppliers this will be a virtual team as opposed to a team that can be
brought together on-site.

The Problem Management forum will be a team responsible for co-ordinating,
tracking and monitoring the outstanding issues effecting Network Banking. These
problems will include on-going investigations into root causes following Major
Incidents. The Problem Management Forum would also be responsible to
reviewing Incident Management Trend data and agreeing if investigations are
required into emerging trends. Where the investigations into emerging trends are
agreed the Problem Management forum will co-ordinate, track and monitor the
outstanding issues.

2.1.2.1 Scope of process:

Problem Management will be responsible for all Problems throughout their life
cycle; this will include high Priority Incidents from both business and IT related.
The function will be responsible for controlling and managing all Problems and
maintaining a Known Errors database. Problem Management will not own
Incidents, but will be responsible for their resolution if escalated. Problem
Management should be a reactive and proactive function.

2.1.2.2 Roles & Responsibilities (Post Office & Supplier):

The following suggested list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is
designed to give a clear indication of the roles required within the Problem
Management function. Roles and responsibilities similar to these should also
exist within each of the technical solution suppliers and the interfaces between
the supplier and POL should be clearly defined:

Role Respon: S
NS (Post Office - * Own the Problem Management framework process
Customer) flow for end to end Problem life cycles

+ Regularly check for supplier dependencies
clearly documented, up-to-date and available
Forum

databases

understood and agreed by both parties

problem management toolset(s)

ensure all procedures, functions and processes are
+ Establish and maintain the Problem Management
+ Establish and maintain a problem and known error

+ Make certain that the contractual terms,
deliverables and chargeable activities are clearly

+ Provide guidance or supply on integrating the

Problem Management for * Owns it's internal Problem Management Process
Suppliers - 3° Party & CM -
Post Office Management

it's area

Provide Management Reporting to NS Problem

* Manage alerting and escalations of incidents within

Reference: POLI758R 10
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

2.1.2.3 Process Inputs:

Business Requirements

Management Reporting

Post Office Guidelines on Standards
Training Needs

Integrated Service Management Tool Set

2.1.2.4 Process Outputs:

Management Reporting

Problem Management Forum Agendas
Major Incident Reports

Maintenance of Known Error Databases

2.1.2.5 Recommended KPI's:

Listed below are metrics that can be utilised for Key Performance Indicators:

Percentage reduction in repeat Incidents/Problems

Percentage reduction in Incidents and Problems affecting service to
Customers

Percentage reduction in known Incidents and Problems encountered

No delays in production of management reports

Improved Customer Satisfaction Survey response on business disruption
caused by Incidents and Problems

Percentage reduction in average time to resolve Problems

Percentage reduction of the average time to implement fixes

Percentage reduction of the average time to diagnose Problems
Percentage reduction of the average number of undiagnosed Problems
Percentage reduction of the average backlog of open Problems and
errors

Percentage reduction of the impact of the Problems and User

Reduction in the business disruption caused by Incidents and Problems
Percentage reduction in the number of Problems escalated (missed
target)

Increased percentage of proactive Changes raised by the Problem
Management, particularly from Major Incidents and Problem Reviews

Reference: POLI758R 11
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

2.1.3 Configuration Management

Technical Configuration Management should be wholly owned and managed for
POL by the TSD with SLAs detailing the level and frequency of Configuration
Management information required by POL. The main objectives of the managed
Configuration Management process are to ensure the following:

+ The accounting for all the IT assets and configurations within the NB
arena

* The provision of accurate information on configurations and their
documentation to support all other POL Service Management processes

+ The provision of a sound basis for Incident Management, Problem
Management, Change and Release Management

+ Verification of the configuration records against the infrastructure and
correction of any exceptions on behalf of POL.

It is expected that the technical solution suppliers (i.e. IBM, Fujitsu Services, Link,
Business Systems, etc) will have their own Configuration Management systems
and procedures. It will be the role of the TSD to amalgamate this information to
provide POL with a single snapshot of the overall technical network solution /
configuration as required.

It is also the responsibility of the TSD to ensure that appropriate procedures are
in place (between themselves and POL) to ensure the regular and appropriate
communication of any changes within the network environment (all 3 party
supplier changes affecting POL should be picked up within the POL Change
Management process). This should then act as a guarantee that the snapshot
they provide to POL is up to date within an understood and agreed timeframe.

Where technical Configuration roles and databases currently exist within POL a
more in depth review is necessary to understand what value these internal
support functions add, or whether they are simply a duplication of effort.

Existing business focused Configuration Management processes and the
Network Support CMDB do not necessarily need to be handed over to the TSD.
However to provide POL with an overall view of all Configuration Items (Cls),
technical and non-technical, consideration must be given to the introduction of an
appropriate support tool solution — whether fully integrated or simply compatible.
Any CMDB should be able to hold the relationships between all suppliers’ system
components, including Incidents, Problems, Known Errors, Changes and
Releases.

Reference: POLI758R 12
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

The diagram below shows the involved suppliers, the internal teams and the
required interfaces to the managed Configuration Management process

Overall Technical
SPOC : Environment
. Config Mgmt
responsibility sits
here & isa
managed service
for POL

2.1.3.1 Scope of process:

TSD will be responsible for providing POL with the necessary technical
Configuration Management information for all direct suppliers to POL across the
Network Banking infrastructure. This information will be provided to POL within
an agreed timescale and to an agreed format.

It is the responsibility of POL to ensure that appropriate interfaces exist between
the technical CMDB and any non-technical configuration databases within the
organisation. Ideally these would be combined to provide a single repository for
all POL Cl information aiding infrastructure management and control.

2.1.3.2 Roles & Responsibilities

The following list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is designed to
give a clear indication of the roles required within the technical Configuration
Management function. Roles and responsibilities similar to these should also
exist within each of the technical solution suppliers:

Reference: POLI758R 13
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

i i 7
i i i
i i i
i i i
— i i
NS Business ICL Link
IBM (NBE)
I Configuration Config Mgmt Config Contig
I Mngt Mgmt Mgmt
Tier 2 am i IcL, i Link Tier 2
IBM Tier 2 ‘
(PONBSO)& I a ipdesk Pathway Helpdesk
Resolver groups HSH (Banks etc...)
—— a I
PO Products and }\) ANOther
Services Service I Technical Service es
Desk (SD) Desk (TSD)

POL00394097
POL00394097

Suppliers supply
Config Mgmt info
to TSD from their
‘own Config Mgmt
End to End Service Report

Role
Configuration Manager —

Respon:

S
Works to the overall objectives agreed with the IT
Services Manager; implements the organisation's
Configuration Management policy and standards.
Evaluates existing Configuration Management
systems and the design, implementation and
management of new/improved systems for
efficiency and effectiveness — including estimating
and planning the work and resources involved, and
monitoring and reporting on progress against plan.
Proposes and agrees scope of the Configuration
Management processes, function, the items that
are to be controlled and the information that is to
be recorded. Develops Configuration Management
standards, plans and procedures.

Mounts an awareness campaign to win support for
the new Configuration Management procedures.
Ensures that changes to the Configuration
Management methods and processes are properly
approved and communicated to staff before being
implemented. Plans, publicises and oversees
implementation of new Configuration Management
systems.

Arranges recruitment and training of staff. Trains
Configuration Management specialists and other
staff in Configuration Management principles,
processes and procedures.

Evaluates proprietary Configuration Management
tools and recommends those that best meet the
organisation's budget, resource, timescale and
technical requirements. Directly or indirectly
customises proprietary tools to produce effective
Configuration Management environments in terms
of databases and software libraries, workflows and
report generation.

Creates and manages the Configuration
Management plan, principles and processes and
their implementation. This includes Cl registration
procedures internal and 3% party interface
procedures); access controls and_ privileges.
Ensures that the correct roles and responsibilities
are defined in the Configuration Management plans
and procedures.

Proposes and agrees Cls to be uniquely identified
with naming conventions. Ensures that staff
comply with identification standards for object
types, environments, processes, __life-cycles,
documentation, versions, formats, baselines,
releases and templates.

Reference: POLI758R.

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

Proposes and/or agrees interfaces with Change
Management, Problem Management, Network
Management, Release Management, computer
operations, logistics, finance and administration
functions.

Plans and executes population of the CMDB.
Manages and maintains CMDB, central libraries,
tools, common codes and data. Ensures regular
housekeeping of the CMDB.

Provides reports, including management reports
(indicating suggested action to deal with current or
foreseen shortcomings), impact analysis reports
and configuration status reports.

Uses or provides the CMDB to facilitate impact
assessment for RFCs and to ensure that
implemented changes are as authorised. Creates
change records, configuration baselines, and
package release records in order to specify the
effect on Cls of an authorised change. Ensures any
changes to change authorisation records are
themselves subject to Change Management
procedures. Ensures that the CMDB is updated
when a change is implemented.

Provides the CMDB to help identify other Cls
affected by a fault that is affecting a Cl.

Performs configuration audits to check that the
physical IT inventory is consistent with the CMDB
and initiates any necessary corrective action.
Initiates actions needed to secure funds to
enhance the infrastructure and staffing levels in
order to cope with growth and change.

Assists auditors to audit the activities of the
Configuration Management team for compliance
with laid-down procedures. Ensures corrective
action is carried out.

Configuration Librarian —

to control the receipt, identification, storage, and
withdrawal of all supported Cis to provide
information on the status of Cls to number, record,
store and distribute Configuration Management
issues

assist Configuration Management to prepare the
Configuration Management Plan

create an identification scheme for Configuration
Management libraries and the DSL

create libraries or other storage areas to hold Cls
assist in the identification of products and Cls
maintain current status information on Cls

accept and record the receipt of new or revised
configurations into the appropriate library

archive superseded Cl copies

Reference: POLI758R.

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

* hold the master copies

correction or information when authorised to do so
* maintain a record of all copies issued
* notify holders of any changes to their copies

to a product
* produce configuration status accounting reports
* assist in conducting configuration audits

are common to other systems.

+ issue copies of products for review, change,

* collect and retain information that will assist in the
assessment of what Cls are impacted by a Change

+ Liaise with other Configuration Libraries where Cls

The following list of inputs and outputs to the Configuration Management process
is not exhaustive but is designed to give a clear indication of the requirement:

2.1.3.3 Inputs:

+ POL Configuration Management Reporting Requirements

+ POL Change Management Process

+ POL Requests for Change

* 3rd Party Supplier Requests for Change

+ Supplier Configuration Management process information & data

+ Forward Schedule of Changes

+ Supplier contracts (Configuration & Change Management sections as a
minimum).

+ Supplier Service Level Agreements (Configuration & Change
Management sections as a minimum).

+ Service Management components and records such as capacity plans, IT
service continuity plans, Incidents, Problems, Known Errors, etc.

2.1.3.4 Outputs:

+ Management Reporting from TSD to relevant resources at POL (e.g.
Capacity Manager, Change Manager...)

+ Results of configuration audits

+ A statement of the objectives and goals of the Configuration Management
team.

+ Asingle snapshot of entire NB technical infrastructure

2.1.3.5 Recommended Critical Success Factors (CSF’s) and KPI’s:

The main critical success factors and the contributing key performance indicators
for the E2E NB Configuration Management function are listed below:

2.1.3.5.1 CSF 1: IT Asset Control

* There is a percentage reduction in the number of Configuration Item (Cl)
attribute errors found in the Configuration Management Database (CMDB)
+ There is a percentage increase in the number of Cls successfully audited

Reference: POLI758R 16
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

* There are percentage improvements in the speed and accuracy of audits.

2.1.3.5.2 CSF 2: The process effectively supports the delivery of quality IT
services.

+ There is a percentage reduction in service errors attributable to wrong Cl
information

+ There is an improved speed of component repair and recovery

+ Customer satisfaction with services and terminal equipment is improved

2.1.3.5.3 CSF 3: Economic Service Provision

+ There is a reduction in the number of ‘missing and duplicated’ Cls
+ There is a better overall understanding of the NB environment and
associated maintenance costs and licence fees for which POL is charged

2.1.3.5.4 CSF 4: Support, integration and interfaces to all other IT Service
Management processes.

+ Percentage reduction of change failures as a result of inaccurate
configuration data

+ Improved incident and problem resolution time due to the availability of
complete and accurate configuration data

+ More accurate results from Risk Analysis audits due to available and
accurate asset information

2.1.4 Change Management

The goal of the Change Management process is to ensure that standardised
methods and procedures are used for efficient and prompt handling of all
changes, in order to minimise the impact of change-related incidents upon
service quality, and consequently to improve the day-to-day operations of the
organisation.

Due to the potential of any changes (either internal or external) causing an
adverse business impact, it is recommended that POL take overall responsibility
for pulling together each of the individual Supplier Change Management
functions.

The diagram below shows the interfaces between Change Management, POL
and 3” party suppliers:

Reference: POLI758R 17
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

7 Finance &

i

Social & ‘Strategic Human
Gieiaine j Commercial Aliances Resources

Business [fl
Architecture

POU Change Mariagarient =
(Change & IS Directorate)

TSO nange Management
(Administration Only) Wl

NSO SPMINEE) a ICL Change & I ‘Link Change &
CaF

er2 tel nxt?
POnBso) Pe feos
owen I 13 (oneee.)
pO Peau and -ANoter
once saves Teces Serves fl

Dest eo) Denk)

=a et

e Xi 1

sPoC
(from Section 1) I

It is expected that each technical solution supplier (i.e. IBM, Fujitsu Services,
Link, BS, etc) will have their own Change Management systems and procedures
that comply with the expectations of POL. However, it will be the role of Change
Management within POL (Change and IS Directorate) to bring together all
Change Information supplied by 3” party suppliers (through the TSD) and to
ensure appropriate Change Management controls and procedures protect the
day to day POL business and emerging strategies. This involves not only co-
ordinating changes intended by third parties but also providing a Change
Management interface with the business considering any potential clashes with
internal business changes, product releases, business strategy, etc.

It is also the responsibility of POL Change Management to ensure that 3rd party
supplier Change Management procedures are aligned with their own. It is the
responsibility of both parties and the TSD to ensure that the appropriate
authorisation routes are understood and agreed for changes of all types
(standard, non-standard and emergency) and that these are fully and clearly
documented.

In order to facilitate the process of effective ‘holistic’ Change Scheduling, it is the
responsibility of POL Change Management (Change and IS Directorate) to co-

Reference: POLI758R 18
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

ordinate and own the production and distribution of a ‘Forward Schedule of
Change’ (FSC) and a 'Projected Service Availability’ (PSA). The latest versions of
these documents should be available to everyone within the organisation,
preferably contained within a commonly available internet or intranet server. The
FSC should contain details of all the Changes approved for implementation and
their proposed implementation dates. The PSA should contain details of
Changes to agreed SLAs and service availability because of the currently
planned FSC. These documents should be agreed with the relevant Customers /
Stakeholders within the business, with Service Level Management (Supplier &
Service Performance Team), with the NBSC, TSD and with Availability
Management. Once agreed, the NBSC should communicate any planned
additional downtime to the User community at large, using the most effective
methods available and with close collaboration with the Change owner(s).

There should be one overall Change Management function within POL
responsible for pulling together ALL Change Initiatives whether business,
technical or otherwise focussed and feed-ins to this team should be well
documented, distributed and communicated throughout the organisation. It is
important to have senior management support for the Change process and for
the overseeing POL Change Mgmt function (Change and IS) in order for it to
have any authority.

It is also paramount that the appropriate support tool is used, preferably a
centrally based Configuration Management Database (CMDB), to log and to
manage all Changes. Such a tool should have the following facilities:

+ Requests For Changes (RFCs) and Problem Records (PRs) stored upon
the same database, in an easily accessible format

+ the ability to identify the relationship between RFCs, PRs and
Configuration Items (Cls)

* the capability to link RFCs to projects

+ the means to identify easily the other Cls that will be impacted whenever
a Change to any specific Cl is proposed

+ automatic production of requests for impact and resources assessment to
the 'owners' of the impacted Cls

+ the ability for all authorised personnel to submit RFCs from their own
terminal or location

+ the ability to 'progress' requests through the appropriate stages of
authorisation and implementation and to maintain clear records of this
progress

+ the ability to allow Change Management staff, Change builders, testers,
etc to add text to Change records

+ clear definition of back-out procedures should a Change cause problems

* automatic warnings of any RFCs that exceed pre-specified time periods
during any stage

+ automatic prompting to carry out reviews of implemented Changes

* automatic generation of management and trend information relating to
Changes

* the ability to build Changes

* automatic production of FSCs

Reference: POLI758R 19
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

+ Aprocess/workflow feature.
2.1.4.1 Scope of process:

End to End Change Management includes the management and co-ordination of
Change processes relating to:

+ hardware

* communications equipment and software

* system software

* products and services

+ ‘live’ applications software

* all associated documentation and procedures

This means that changes to any components that are under the control of an
applications development project - for example, applications software (i.e.
Horizon), documentation or procedures - do not come directly under Change
Management but would be subject to project Change Management procedures.
The E2E Change Management team will, however, be expected to liaise closely
with Release Management project managers and Operational Business Change
(OBC) staff to ensure smooth implementation and consistency within the
changing management environments.

2.1.4.2 Roles & Responsibilities (Post Office & Supplier):

The following suggested list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is
designed to give a clear indication of the roles required within the Change
Management function. Roles and responsibilities similar to these should also
exist within each of the technical solution suppliers and the interfaces between
the supplier, TSD and POL should be clearly defined:

Role Responsibilities

POL Overall Change + Develop and maintain the overall Change
Manager (Change & IS Management process and ensure appropriate
Directorate) interfaces and contractual inclusion between POL,

TSD and 3” party suppliers

+ Mount awareness campaign to gain support

* Chair the Change Advisory Board (CAB)

+ Ensure the Change Process is adhered to
throughout the organisation and that contractual
obligations are met by the suppliers

+ Perform on-going monitoring of changes as
appropriate

+ Review Change Management procedures

+ Management Reporting

POL Overall Change * Direct and co-ordinate all Changes through the

Management Team established process

(Change & IS Directorate) I + Schedule ALL Changes and Releases

* Distribute FSC and manage communications to the
Customer via NBSC

+ Liaise with Change Builder / individual _team

Reference: POLI758R 20
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

Change Manager

Assemble Changes into release packages

Perform a post implementation review on any
changes not reviewed at individual team level
Compare actual cost of the change with budgeted
costs

Liaise with Release Management over distribution
of software changes

Liaise with Customers over acceptable timing of
changes

Perform on-going monitoring of changes as
appropriate

Review Change Management procedures

Change Manager —
Individual Team Level (e.g.
OBC, NS & TSD)

Develop and maintain the Change Management
process within the team, ensuring alignment and
communication pathways are established into
overall POL Change Management Team (Change
& IS)

Mount awareness campaign to gain company &
management support

Direct and co-ordinate all Changes through the
established process

Schedule Changes

Liaise with Change builder

Ensure adequate testing has been carried out
Check and approve back-out plans

Assemble Change into release packages

Ensure resources are available to carry out
changes

Perform a post implementation review on all
changes

Compare actual cost of changes with budgeted
costs and feed into Change and IS Directorate
Liaise with Release Management to arrange for the
release of code from the Definitive Software Library
(DSL) where appropriate

Liaise with Release Management over the
distribution of software changes

Liaise with Customers over acceptable timing of
changes

Obtain documentation and sign-off from
supplier/change builder before implementation
Authorise releases into live environment

Initiate back out plans if the change fails

Perform on-going monitoring of changes as
appropriate

Review Change Management procedures

Reference: POLI758R.

21

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

Change Management is not responsible for identifying components affected by
change or updating change records (this is the domain of Configuration
Management), nor is it responsible for the Release of new or changed
components (the domain of Release Management). The relationships between
Capacity Management, Change Management, Configuration Management, and
Release Management are illustrated below.

2.1.4.3 Inputs:

Inputs to the Change Management process will comprise:

+ RFCs
+ CMDB
+ Forward Schedule of Changes (FSC)

Activities undertaken will involve:

+ filtering changes

* managing changes and the change process throughout POL
* Co-ordinating 3° Party Supplier and internal changes

* chairing the CAB and the CAB/Emergency Committee

* reviewing and closing RFCs

+ Management reporting.

2.1.4.4 Outputs:

+ FSC

+ RFCs

+ CAB minutes and actions

+ Change Management reports.

Reference: POLI758R 22
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

2.1.4.5 Recommended CSF’s and KPI's:

The main critical success factors and the contributing key performance indicators
for the E2E NB Change Management function are listed below:

2.1.4.5.1 CSF 1: Provision of a repeatable process for making technical
Changes

There is a percentage reduction in rejected Change Requests (CRs)
There is a percentage reduction in the number of unauthorised changes
There are percentage improvements in the number of Change Requests
implemented on time

There is a percentage reduction in the average time to make changes
There are fewer changes ‘backed out’ due to testing failures

There is a percentage reduction in changes required due to previous
change failures

2.1.4.5.2 CSF 2: The ability to make changes quickly and accurately, with
effective co-ordination between POL and other supplying Change Management

teams.

There is a percentage reduction in the number of urgent changes

There is a percentage reduction in the number of urgent changes causing
incidents

There is a reduction in the percentage of changes implemented without
being tested

There is a percentage reduction of urgent changes requiring back-out
There is a reduction of urgent or high priority changes submitted without
business case to justify the decision

There are improvements in the change communication speed amongst
relevant change groups

There is a higher percentage of correct authorisation procedures being
followed first time

2.1.4.5.3 CSF 3: The protection of services when making a change

There is a reduction in both the scheduled and unscheduled service
unavailability caused by changes

There is a percentage reduction in ‘backed out’ changes

There is a percentage reduction of unsuccessful changes

There is a percentage reduction in changes causing incidents

There is a percentage reduction in changes impacting core service time
and SLA service hours

There is a percentage increase in changes activated outside core service
time and SLA service hours

There is a reduction in the percentage of changes not referred to a
Change Advisory Board (CAB) or Change Advisory Board Emergency
Committee (CAB/EC)

Improvement in any Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) feedback on
change

Reference: POLI758R 23
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

+ Percentage reduction in failed changes that do not have recorded back-
out plan
* Percentage reduction in time to implement a change freeze

2.1.4.5.4 CSF 4: The ability to show efficiency and effectiveness results

+ There is a percentage efficiency improvement based on number of
Change Requests processed

* There is a percentage increase in the accuracy of change estimates (time
and cost)

* There is a percentage reduction in the average cost of handling a change

+ There is a percentage reduction in change overtime due to better planning
and co-ordination across NB environment

+ There is a reduction in the ‘cost’ of failed changes

+ There is an increased percentage of changes implemented on time

+ There is an increased percentage of changes implemented to budget

* There is a reduction in the percentage of failed changes

+ There is a reduction in the percentage of backed out changes

2.1.5 Release Management

As with Change Management, due to the potential of any Releases (either
internal or external) causing significant adverse business impact it is
recommended that POL take overall responsibility for pulling together each of the
individual Supplier Release Management functions, ensuring minimal conflict.

It is expected that each technical solution supplier (i.e. IBM, Fujitsu Services,
Link, BS etc) will have their own Release Management systems and procedures
that comply with the expectations of POL. However, it will be the role of Release
Management within POL to bring together all Release Information supplied by 3°
party suppliers and to ensure appropriate Release Management controls and
procedures protect the day to day POL business and emerging strategies.

The overall goals of POL Release Management should be to:

* plan and oversee the successful rollout of software and related hardware
within POL

+ design and implement efficient procedures for the distribution and
installation of changes to IT systems

* ensure that hardware and software being changed is traceable, secure
and that only correct, authorised and tested versions are installed

* communicate and manage expectations of the customer during the
planning and rollout of new releases

* agree the exact content and rollout plan for the release, through liaison
with POL Change Management

+ implement new software releases or hardware into the operational
environment using the controlling processes of Configuration
Management and Change Management - a release should be under
Change Management and may consist of any combination of hardware,
software, firmware or document Cls

Reference: POLI758R 24
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

* ensure that master copies of all software are secured in the Definitive
Software Library, RDS (either on POL site, or on behalf of POL) and that
the Configuration Management Database (CMDB) is updated

+ Ensure that all hardware being rolled out or changed is secure and
traceable, using the services of Configuration Management.

The focus of POL Release Management should be the protection of the live
environment and its services through the use of formal procedures and checks
and the successful co-ordination of all 3° party suppliers.

POL Release Management must work closely with POL Change Management
and Configuration Management processes to ensure that a shared CMDB is kept
up-to-date following Changes implemented by new Releases, and that the
content of those Releases is stored in the DSL (Business Systems Reference
Data System).

Reference: POLI758R 25
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097

POL00394097
End to End Service Report
The diagram below shows the interfaces between Release Management, POL
and 3" party suppliers:
1 Free 4 Commercial & strtesic — [ haar
i [e
EE Ba ETN I

Business
Architecture

POL Release Management

ICL Release
Mngt

a

18M (NBE)
Release

Link Release
ee Mngt

sae

Ter? I tet Link Tier 2
ier "] "] ink Tier
I temTier2 {il
(PO NBSC) & eae Pathway Helpdesk
I Resolver groups I (Banks ete...

ANOther
Technical Service
Desk (TSD)

I Po Products and
Services Service
Desk (SD)

PoC
(from Section 1)

2.1.5.1 Scope of process:

POL Release Management should undertake the planning, design & build (where
appropriate), configuration and testing of hardware and software to create a set
of release components for the live POL environment. Activities should also cover
the planning, preparation and scheduling of a release to the many POL
customers and locations.

Overall POL Release Management activities should include and / or ensure:
* release policy and planning

* release design, build and configuration (where appropriate)
* release acceptance, in conjunction with OBC teams

Reference: POLI758R 26
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

rollout planning (in conjunction with POL Change Management and 3°
party suppliers)

extensive testing to predefined acceptance criteria, in conjunction with
OBC teams

sign-off of the release for implementation

communication, preparation and training (through NS Change Control &
NBSC)

audits of hardware and software prior to and following the implementation
of changes (in conjunction with TSD Configuration Management)
installation of new or upgraded hardware

storage of controlled software in both centralised and distributed systems
Release, distribution and the installation of software (or the management
of 3” parties carrying out this role.

The main components to be controlled by POL Release Management are:

application programs developed in-house

externally developed software (including standard off-the-shelf software
as well as customer-written software)

utility software

supplier-provided systems software

hardware, and hardware specifications

Assembly instructions and documentation, including User manuals.

Release Management should be used for:

large or critical hardware rollouts, especially when there is a dependency
on a related software Change in the business systems, i.e. not every
single PC that needs to be installed

major software rollouts, especially initial instances of new applications
along with accompanying software distribution and support procedures for
subsequent use if required

Bundling or batching related sets of Changes into manageable-sized
units.

The following diagram outlines the major activities in Release Management and
their position in the life-cycle of a change. Configuration Management records
should be updated during the build and release to ensure that trusted releases
exist and can be reverted to in case of problems. This then requires a sound
communication process between POL Release Management and the TSD
Configuration Management function. A release should be carried out under
Change Management and the content and timing of a release should be
authorised in advance via the Change Management process.

Reference: POLI758R 27
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

2.1.5.2 Roles & Responsibilities (Post Office & Supplier):

It is the role of the POL Release Manager to measure, and push for
improvements in the KPI’s with 3° party suppliers and to co-ordinate all releases
for POL, working closely with the overall Change Manager.

Below is a suggested list of activities to be the responsibility of the overall POL
Release Manager. His / her work should be in conjunction with any other
‘release teams’ within POL (e.g. NS OBC) and / or 3” party suppliers (e.g.
Business Systems — BS):

+ Gaining consensus on the release contents

+ Agreeing to the phasing over time and by geographical location, business
unit and customers

+ Producing a high-level release schedule

+ Conducting site surveys to assess existing hardware and software in use

+ Planning resource levels (including staff overtime)

+ Agreeing on roles and responsibilities (especially between POL teams
and 3° party suppliers). These must be documented and easily
accessible to the organisation

+ Obtaining detailed quotes and negotiating with suppliers for new
hardware, software or installation services

+ Producing back-out plans

+ Developing a quality plan for the release

+ Planning acceptance of support groups and the customer.

2.1.5.3 Inputs

Inputs to the Release Management process will comprise:

+ RFCs

Reference: POLI758R 28
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

CMDB
Forward Schedule of Changes (FSC)

2.1.5.4 Outputs:

Release Schedule
RFCs
Management reports

2.1.5.5 Recommended CSF’s and KPI's:

The main critical success factors and the contributing key performance indicators
for the E2E NB Release Management function are listed below:

2.1.5.5.1_ CSF 1: Provision of better quality software and hardware

There is a percentage reduction in the use of software and hardware
release that have not passed the required quality checks

There is a percentage reduction in installed software not taken from the
Definitive Software Library (DSL), in POL’s case for Horizon the RDS
There is a percentage reduction in non-standard hardware

The assurance that all bought-in software complies with legal restrictions
There is a percentage reduction of unauthorised reversion to previous
releases

There is a percentage reduction in the use of unauthorised software and
hardware

2.1.5.5.2 CSF 2: The provision of a repeatable process for rolling out software
and hardware releases

All new Releases are planned and controlled by Release Management

All installed software is taken from the DSL

All appropriate hardware in stored in Definitive Hardware Store (DHS)
There is a percentage reduction in the number of failed distributions of
releases to remotes sites

There is a reduction in the percentage of urgent releases

There is an increase in the percentage of ‘normal release units’ as
opposed to ad hoc releases

2.1.5.5.3 CSF 3: The swift and accurate implementation of releases, effectively
co-ordinated with other business and technical changes

There is a percentage reduction in build failures

There is a percentage improvement in ‘on-time’ implementations of
releases to all sites

There is a percentage reduction in the number of urgent releases

There is a percentage reduction in releases causing incidents

There is an overall reduction in the percentage of releases implemented
without being tested

Reference: POLI758R 29
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

+ A reduced percentage of urgent or high priority releases requested
without the appropriate business case/justification

2.1.5.5.4 CSF 4: Cost effective releases

+ There is an increase in the number of releases built and implemented on
schedule

+ There is an increase in the number of releases built and implemented
within budget

+ There is a reduction in service unavailability caused by releases

* There is a percentage reduction in releases backed out

+ There is a percentage reduction in the number failed releases

* There is a percentage reduction in the average cost of handling a release

+ An increase in the number of planned composition of releases matching
actual composition (demonstrating good release planning)

+ There will be no evidence of unnecessary duplication in release building
(e.g. multiple builds of remote sites, when copies of a single build would
suffice)

* There is a percentage increase in the accuracy of release estimates
(required time, cost & resources)

2.1.6 Capacity Management

The Capacity Management (CM) process for the Network Banking (NB)
environment should be owned by a NS on behalf of POL

In the past the majority of the information regarding capacity planning within POL
related to the capacity within the business environment in terms of numbers of
Post Offices, numbers of staff in the offices etc. In the future, more technical
environment of NB, there will be an increased necessity to convert this
information into planning information that can relate to the IT infrastructure within
each supplier domain. This can then be used by each IT supplier e.g. IBM, EDS
etc. to plan their infrastructure.

The future Capacity process should therefore encompass:

1. The monitoring of performance and throughput of IT services and the
supporting infrastructure components.

2. Undertaking tuning activities to make the most effective and efficient use
of existing resources.

3. Understanding the demands currently being made for IT resources and
producing forecasts for future resources.

4. Influencing the demand for resource, perhaps in conjunction with financial
management

5. The production of a Capacity Plan which will enable the IT service
providers to provide service of the quality described in the Service Level
Agreements (SLA’s)

However, not all of the above will be undertaken by POL, but it is recommended
that POL develop a Capacity Plan to include the following:

Reference: POLI758R 30
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

. Introduction
o Scope
o Methods used
+ Assumptions made
. Management Summary
. Business scenarios
. Service summary
o Forecasts etc.
+ Resource summary
o Current and recent usage
o Resource forecasts
. Options for service improvement
+ Cost model
. Recommendations

In Service Management terms there are three sub processes that describe
Capacity Management:

+ Business Capacity Planning
* Service Capacity Planning
+ Resource Capacity Planning

Business Capacity Planning

This sub process is responsible for ensuring that the future business
requirements for IT services are considered, planned and implemented. The
requirements come from the business plans outlining new _ services,
improvements and growth in existing services etc. In the case of the NB project,
this is a new service that will necessitate substantial growth in the existing
environment and liaison with new suppliers.

Service Capacity Planning

The focus of this sub process is the management of the performance of the “live”
operational IT services used by the customers. It is responsible for ensuring that
the performance of all services, as detailed in the targets for SLA’s and SLR’s are
monitored and measured and the collected data is recorded, analysed and
reported. This is performed by staff with knowledge of all areas of technology
used in the E2E service. In the case of the NB service, each individual supplier
will have responsibility to ensure the effective delivery of the service component
that they are delivering, but only POL will understand the E2E service that is
being delivered and will therefore report against it.

Resource Capacity Planning

This sub process is responsible for the management of the individual
components of the IT infrastructure. It is responsible for ensuring that all
components within the IT infrastructure are monitored and measured and that the
collected data is recorded. Individuals manage the process with specialist
knowledge in the particular area of technology. Within the NB service, the
suppliers are responsible for ensuring that the capacity is available within their
domain and therefore this activity will very firmly sit with the suppliers.

Reference: POLI758R 31
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

In terms of the capacity process above, POL will be responsible for 2, 4 and 5 in
the new environment, with the individual suppliers being responsible for 1 and 3.
In broad terms this mean that NS will be responsible for ensuring that adequate
and timely information is available to enable the suppliers to plan their IT
infrastructure in readiness for future demand. NS should not be directly
responsible for IT infrastructure capacity.

2.1.6.1 Scope of process:

Capacity Management within NS will be responsible to ensure that appropriate
business data is given to each of its suppliers in a timely manner to ensure that
they can plan their IT infrastructure capacity in readiness for any changing
demand for service.

The NB service framework is provided via a multi vendor environment and
internal business units. The NS CM service will interface with all service
providers as listed below:

+ Fujitsu Services

+ LBM.

+ LINK

+ Alliance and Leicester

+ NatWest Bank

+ EDS.

+ Consignia Customer Management (C.C.M.)
* Business Systems Business Unit (B.S.B.U.)
+ Post Office Ltd.

+ NS Service Management teams.

2.1.6.2 Roles & Responsibilities

The following list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is designed to
give a clear indication of the roles within the team:

Role Responsibilities
Capacity Manager + Promote awareness of the function.
* Define a CM strategy.

and effective delivery of the service.

adequately trained to perform their roles.

understood and executed.

+ Ensure that the optimum acceptable levels of
capacity are implemented to enable efficient

+ Ensure members of the CM team are

+ Ensure the responsibilities of the CM team are

Capacity Management * Conduct CM maturity assessments of each

Team service provider.

team and the service providers.

+ Establish formal interfaces between the CM

+ Establish effective trigger/alert mechanisms to
ensure CM Incidents are escalated to the CM

Reference: POLI758R 32
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

team in good time.

Develop and manage the CM _ supporting
documentation.

Request and review the supplier capacity
plans.

Register all CM documentation within the
CMDB.

Conduct CM reviews and audits.

Assess the E2E NB environment for risk and
where applicable make recommendations for
risk reduction measures.

Review the design of the proposed E2E NB
environment and make recommendations for
Capacity Management

The following list of inputs and outputs to the CM process is not exhaustive but is

designed to give a clear indication of the requirement:

2.1.6.3 Inputs:

+ Technology

+ SLA’s/SLR’s and Service Catalogue
+ Business Plans and Strategy

+ IS/IT plans and strategy

+ Business Requirements and volumes
+ Operational schedules

* Deployment and development plans and programmes

+ Forward Schedule of Changes (FSC)
+ Incidents and Problems

+ Service Reviews

+ SLA breaches

+ Financial Plans

+ Budgets

2.1.6.4 Sub Processes

2.1.6.4.1. Business Capacity Management

+ Trend

+ Forecast
+ Model

+ Prototype
+ Size

+ Document future business requirements

2.1.6.4.2 Service Capacity Management

+ Monitor
+ Analyse

Reference: POLI758R.
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

33

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

* Tune and report on service performance
+ Establish baselines and profiles of use of services

2.1.6.4.3 Resource Capacity Management

+ Monitor

+ Analyse

+ Run and report on the utilisation of components

+ Establish baseline and profiles of use of components

2.1.6.5 Outputs

* Capacity Plan

+ Capacity Database

+ Baselines and profiles

+ Thresholds and alarms

* Capacity reports (regular, ad hoc and exception)
+ SLA and SLR recommendations

* Costing and Charging recommendations

+ Proactive changes and service improvements
+ Revised operational schedule

+ Effectiveness reviews

+ Audit reports

2.1.6.6 Recommended CSF’s and KPI’s

2.1.6.6.1 Critical Success Factors:

The main critical success factors and the contributing key performance indicators
for the End to End NB business continuity function are listed below:

+ Accurate business forecasts

+ Knowledge of IT strategy and plans ensuring that the plans are accurate

+ Anunderstanding of current and future technologies

+ An ability to demonstrate cost effectiveness

+ Effective interaction with other processes

+ An ability to plan and implement the appropriate capacity to match
business needs

2.1.6.6.2 KPI's:

+ Resource forecasts
© timely production of forecasts of resource requirements
© accurate forecasts of trends in resource utilisation
© incorporation of business plan into Capacity plan

* Technology
o ability to monitor performance and throughput of all services and
components as appropriate
o implementation of new technology in line with business
requirements (time, cost and functionality

Reference: POLI758R 34
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

othe use of old technology does not result in breached SLA’s due to
problems with support or performance

+ Cost effectiveness
© a reduction in “panic buying”
© No significant over Capacity that can’t be justified in business
terms
© accurate forecasts of planned expenditure

+ Plan and implement the appropriate IT Capacity to match business needs
o reduction in incidents due to poor performance
o reduction in lost business due to inadequate Capacity
© new services implemented which match the SLR
© recommendations made about Capacity are acted upon

2.1.7 Availability Management

The Availability Management (AM) process for the Network Banking (NB)
environment should be owned by a central function on behalf of Post Office
Limited (POL).

Currently availability is mainly for Fujitsu Services (ICL) to determine, however in
the future when there will be multiple suppliers, availability of the systems and
services will be key to enabling the E2E delivery of Network Banking. Indeed NB
will be a critical business process for POL, with all of the credibility issues that
surround such a process.

The future availability process should include the following: -

+ Ensure IT services are designed to deliver the levels of availability
required by the business.

+ Provision of a range of IT availability reporting to ensure that agreed
levels of availability, reliability and maintainability are measured and
monitored on an ongoing basis.

+ Optimisation of the availability of the IT Infrastructure to deliver cost
effective improvements that deliver tangible benefits to the business and
User.

+ A reduction in the frequency and duration of Incidents that impact IT
Availability.

+ Ensure that shortfalls in IT Availability are recognised and appropriate
corrective actions identified and progressed.

+ Creation and maintenance of a forward looking Availability Plan, aimed at
improving the overall availability of IT services and_ infrastructure
components, to ensure existing and future business availability can be
satisfied.

However, there are similarities between Availability and Capacity Management, in
that not all of the above will be undertaken by POL, but it is recommended that
POL develop an availability plan, as the NB service matures, to include the
following:

Reference: POLI758R 35
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

+ — Introduction

+ Scope

+ Supplier domains included

+ Actual levels of availability versus agreed levels of availability for NB (as
experienced by the user).

+ Activities being progressed to address shortfalls in availability of the
service. Investment decisions and options with associated costs.

+ Details of changing availability requirements for the NB service e.g. 7X24.
Documented options and associated costs to meet the requirements

+ Any planned Service Outage Analysis (SOA). Should be documented
within a Forward Looking Schedule.

+ Areview of SOA’s undertaken to ensure infrastructure is being improved

+ The suppliers proactively aiming to improve the availability and
investigating new technologies in order to do so. Business benefits to
POL should form part of the report (note: such improvements may result
in less income to the supplier, but in a true win-win situation the supplier
should recommend such technological improvements).

The Availability plan for NB should cover a period of one to two years, with a
detailed view for the first 6 months of the service.

2.1.7.1 Scope of process:

The availability process for NB within POL will be concerned with the design,
implementation, measurement and management of the IT Infrastructure
supporting it, albeit that in the main this will be provided by the suppliers. POL
should ensure that the suppliers provide evidence of proactive Availability
Management to ensure that the overall availability requirements of NB are
consistently met. Therefore Availability Management should:

+ Apply to the NB E2E service, as it will be business critical

+ Be applied to the suppliers, internal as well as external, that form the IT
support (ideally before the SLA is created)

+ Consider all aspects of the IT Infrastructure and supporting organisations,
which may impact Availability, including; training, skills, policy, process
effectiveness, procedures and tools

The NB service framework is provided via a multi-vendor environment and
internal business units. The NS Availability Management process will interface
with all service providers within the E2E environment including: -

+ Fujitsu Services

* LBM.

+ LINK

+ Alliance and Leicester

+ NatWest Bank

* EDS.

+ Consignia Customer Management (C.C.M.)
* Business Systems Business Unit (B.S.B.U.)

Reference: POLI758R 36
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

+ Post Office Ltd.
+ NS Service Management teams.

2.1.7.2 Roles & Responsibilities

The following list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is designed to
give a clear indication of the roles within the team: -

Role sponsibilities

Availability Manager * Promote awareness of the function.

+ Define an AM plan.

+ Ensure that the suppliers provide optimum
availability levels to enable efficient and
effective delivery of the service.

+ Ensure members of the AM team are
adequately trained to perform their roles.

+ Ensure the responsibilities of the AM team are
understood and executed.

Availability Management + Conduct AM assessments of each service

Team provider.

+ Establish formal interfaces between the AM
team and the service providers.

+ Establish effective trigger/alert mechanisms to
ensure AM Incidents are escalated to the AM
team in good time.

+ Develop and manage the AM _ supporting

documentation.

+ Request and review the supplier Availability
plans.

+ Register all AM documentation within the
CMDB.

+ Conduct SOA reviews.

+ Assess the E2E NB environment for Availability
risks and where applicable make
recommendations for risk reduction measures.

+ Review the design of the proposed E2E NB
environment and make recommendations for
Availability Management

The following list of inputs and outputs to the AM process is not exhaustive but is
designed to give a clear indication of the requirement: -

2.1.7.3 Inputs

+ Availability requirements of the business for the NB service
+ Apbusiness impact assessment for the business functions underpinned by
the infrastructure supporting NB

Reference: POLI758R 37
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

* The availability, reliability and maintainability requirements of the IT
infrastructure that underpins NB

+ Information on IT service and component failure, in the form of incident
and problem records, similar to the service provided by the supplier,
underpinned by the suppliers Infrastructure

+ Awide range of configuration and monitoring data pertaining to NB

+ Service level achievements against agreed targets for the NB service

2.1.7.4 Outputs

+ Availability and recovery design criteria for the NB service

+ Details of the availability techniques that each supplier will deploy to
provide additional infrastructure resilience to prevent or minimise the
impact of component failure to the NB service

+ Agreed targets of availability, reliability and maintainability for the IT
infrastructure components that underpin NB service

+ Agreed targets of availability, reliability and maintainability to reflect the
business, User and IT supporting organisation perspectives

+ The monitoring requirements for IT components to ensure that deviations
in availability, reliability and maintainability are detected and reported

+ Availability plan for the proactive improvement of the IT Infrastructures
within each supplier domain

2.1.7.5 Recommended CSF’s and KPI’s

Critical Success Factors (CSF’s) and Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) for
Availability Management can be many and varied and need to reflect the
customer's view of the service. These need to be developed in conjunction with
NS.

2.1.8 Business Continuity Management

The Business Continuity Management (BCM) process for the Network Banking
(NB) environment will be owned by Post Office Limited, within the Network
Support (NS) team. The main objectives of this process are to:

+ Ensure that in the event of a disaster or Main Business Continuity Incident
(MBCI) the correct contingency measures can be invoked and the NB
service recovered to acceptable levels of operation within the time-scales
defined by the business.

+ Reduce the impact of failures to the E2E NB Service.

+ Reduce the risk of failure within the E2E NB Service.

+ Ensure that awareness of the roles, responsibilities and objectives of the
NS business continuity process are understood throughout the NB
environment.

BCM will interface with all service providers across the multi-vendor environment
to ensure that adequate business continuity measures are in place. The diagram
below shows the involved suppliers, the internal teams and the required
interfaces to the NS BCM process:

Reference: POLI758R 38
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

POL00394097
POL00394097

Continuity I. Continuity I [Continuity I. I
Process Process

I NS supplier
Management

Business oe
systems

Post office
Lea

NS Change
Management

F a i
i
i
3 I
8 I nscontrect [I I ns Business continuity Cul vl lg_p_N8 Contguraton [i
5 betwee Internal Business Units H Management
3 Kf i
& S ' Bi
2 wi —
£ I i
© Ns Service Level p Ns Avaiabaty
5 » Saenal
Management fanagemen
& rt h Management
3 =---- RO LVESIES SATS I
I, [atscm I. [arsew I. [arscm I. [arsom I [imscw I. I
Process [I Process I I Process Ii] I Process I!) I process I!) I I oe
1 > sanagement
tam II unk I [Allene $1 I watwest II eps I I
Leicester I I 1

Figure 1 Business Continuity Model for E2E NB

Implementation of the above model will follow the subsequent high-level stages:

Stage 1: Conduct Service Provider BCM Assessments

The BCM team will conduct an assessment of each of the internal and external
service providers. This assessment will understand the BC framework within
each supplier organisation, measuring it against the required model. This stage
will include the receipt, QA and registration of each supplier continuity plan within
the NS CMDB.

Stage 2: Definition of the NS E2E Business Continuity Strategy

Following the supplier assessments, an End to End business continuity strategy
will be developed which, when implemented, will ensure the required levels of
business continuity are delivered across the NB environment.

Stage 3: Establishment of Interface Agreements with each external Service
Provider

Interface agreements will be established with each service provider, which are in
line with the central BCM strategy. These agreements will build on the contracts
already in place, defining the operational interfaces that the supplier
organisations must establish with the central BCM process.

Stage 4: Establishment of Interface Agreements with each internal Service
Provider.

Interface agreements will be established with the internal service providers, which
are in line with the central BCM strategy.

Reference: POLI758R 39
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

2.1.8.1 Scope of process:

The NS BCM process will be responsible for all activities involved in the provision
of continuity measures that are in line with business requirements within the E2E
NB service. The NB service framework is provided via a multi-vendor
environment and internal business units. The NS BCM service will interface with
all service providers as listed below:

+ Fujitsu Services

+ LBM.

+ LINK

+ Alliance and Leicester

+ NatWest Bank

+ EDS.

+ Consignia Customer Management (C.C.M.)
+ Business Systems Business Unit (B.S.B.U.)
+ Post Office Ltd.

+ NS Service Management teams.

2.1.8.2 Roles & Responsibilities

The following list of roles and responsibilities are not exhaustive but are designed
to give a clear indication of the roles within the team:

Role Responsib Ss

Business Continuity + Promote awareness of the business continuity

Manager function.

+ Ensure the minimum acceptable levels of
operation for the business are understood.

+ Define a business continuity strategy.

+ Implement the business continuity strategy.

+ Ensure adequate tools and technologies are in
place to support the BCM function.

+ Ensure members of the BCM team are
adequately trained to perform their roles.

+ Ensure the responsibilities of the business
continuity team are carried out.

Business Continuity Team * Conduct business continuity assessments of
each service provider.

+ Provide feedback on the service provider
contracts to ensure that adequate provision in
made for business continuity.

+ Establish formal interfaces between the BCM
team and the service providers.

+ Conduct continuity tests and walkthroughs.

+ Establish effective trigger/alert mechanisms to
ensure Main Business Continuity Incidents
(MBCls) are escalated to the BCM team in

Reference: POL758R. 40
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

good time.

+ Develop and manage the business continuity
plans.

+ Develop and manage the business continuity
supporting documentation.

+ Request and review the supplier continuity
plans.

+ Quality Assess all business continuity
documentation against POL documentation
standards.

+ Register all business continuity documentation
within the CMDB.

+ Follow change control procedures for all
changes to business continuity documentation.

+ Obtain feedback from each service provider on
all conducted continuity tests. Feed this
information back into the BCM process.

+ Conduct business impact analysis (BIA)
assessments across the NB service.

+ Conduct business continuity reviews and
audits.

+ Assess the E2E NB environment for risk and
where applicable make recommendations for
risk reduction measures.

+ Review the design of the proposed E2E NB
environment and make recommendations for
business continuity.

The following list of inputs and outputs to the BCM process is not exhaustive but
is designed to give a clear indication of the requirement: -

2.1.8.3 Inputs

Supplier contracts (business continuity sections as a minimum).

Supplier Service Level Agreements (business continuity sections as a
minimum).

Service provider business continuity plans and associated documentation.
Business requirements of the NB service.

Change forward schedules.

Alerts/triggers from the Service Desk and Problem Management
processes for main business continuity incidents.

Post Office Guidelines on Standards.

The central NS CMDB.

2.1.8.4 Outputs

Management reporting.

Risk assessment for the NB service.

Risk reduction recommendations for the NB service.
Interface agreements with service providers.

Reference: POLI758R 41
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

+ Astatement of the objectives and goals of the BCM team.
* Continuity test schedules.
+ Training needs of the business continuity team.

2.1.8.5 Recommended KPI's and CSF’s

The main critical success factors and the contributing key performance indicators
for the E2E NB business continuity function are listed below:

2.1.8.5.1 CSF 1: In the event of a disaster or Main Business Continuity
Incident, services can be recovered to meet the business objectives.

2.1.8.5.2 Contributing KPI's

+ Regular audits of the Continuity Plans are conducted to ensure that the
agreed recovery requirements of the business can be achieved.

+ Achievable service recovery targets are recorded within formal SLAs.

+ Regular continuity tests and disaster walkthroughs are planned and
conducted.

+ IT Service Continuity (ITSC) contracts are negotiated and managed with
the service providers.

+ There is an overall reduction of risk and the impact of failures within the
E2E NB environment.

2.1.8.5.3 CSF 2: Awareness of the business continuity function is promoted
throughout the E2E NB framework.

2.1.8.5.4 Contributing KPI's

+ Ensure that the requirements of the business continuity process are
understood E2E throughout the NB framework.

+ Ensure that all service providers and staff are able to respond to an
invocation of the business continuity plans.

+ The objectives and responsibilities of the BCM process are regularly
communicated to the business.

* The objectives and responsibilities of the BCM process are regularly
communicated to the service providers.

2.1.9 Service Level Management

The Service Level Management (SLM) process for the Network Banking (NB)
environment should be owned by a central function (Network Support) on behalf
of POL.

The main objective of this process (in ITIL terms), is to maintain and improve IT
service quality, through a constant cycle of agreeing, monitoring and reporting
upon IT service achievements and to instigate actions to eradicate poor service —
in line with business and/or cost justification.

The future SLM process should ensure that:

Reference: POLI758R 42
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

The NB service is designed to meet Service Level Requirements

It enables improved relationships with satisfied customers.

All parties to the agreement have a clear view of roles and responsibilities
relating to the NB service and that there no misunderstandings or
omissions.

There are specific targets to aim for and against which service quality can
be measured, monitored and reported on (if you can’t measure it, you
can’t manage it and if you can’t manage it you probably don't care!).

IT effort is focused on the areas that the business believes are key.

IT and customers have a clear and consistent expectation of the level of
service required from NB. Priorities are agreed and understood.
Weaknesses are identified through effective service monitoring by the
suppliers and so that remedial action can quickly take place.

Service monitoring by the suppliers also shows where Customers or User
actions are causing the faults within NB and identifies where working
efficiency and /or training can be improved.

SLM underpins the supplier management for the NB service

The SLA could be used for a basis of charging for the NB service and
therefore help demonstrate the value that the Customers are getting for
their money.

SLM should be totally owned and controlled by POL in the new environment.
However, the SLM function may want to get the TSD to collect service data on its
behalf from the various suppliers. Although SLM is reasonably mature within NS,
the process is concentrated around the Fujitsu Services service. At this present
time, the SLM teams have had little involvement in the contract negotiations with
the new supplier's e.g. IBM.

Planning for Network Banking

In the new NB world the following planning activities need to take place.

Appoint the new members of the team. The current staffing will need to
be enhanced to support the NB service.

Define the roles, tasks and responsibilities.

Produce a Mission Statement for the new team to encourage focus and
commitment.

Define the objectives and scope of the new function

Start an awareness campaign to win support and advise people of their
commitment and attain support.

Quantify the activities, resources, funding and quality criteria

Consider implementing a Service Catalogue and agree the SLA structure
Identify support tools for SLA monitoring. In the case of NB, these will be
provided by the relevant suppliers

Set and agree incident priority levels and escalation paths, with
customers, internal and external suppliers. This will have to be done in
conjunction with the relevant suppliers’ Service Desks and Problem
Management functions

Reference: POLI758R 43
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

2.1.9.1 Scope of process:

Service Level Management will be a key process for NS with the inception of
Network Banking. The scope will therefore include, but will not be limited to:

+ E2E supply chain management

+ Underpinning Contracts

+ Operational Level Agreements (Internal and External)
+ Service Level Agreements

The NB service framework is provided via a multi vendor environment and
internal business units. The NS SLM service will interface with all service
providers as listed below:

+ Fujitsu Services

+ 1B.M.

+ LINK

+ Alliance and Leicester

+ NatWest Bank

+ EDS.

* Consignia Customer Management (C.C.M.)
+ Business Systems Business Unit (B.S.B.U.)
+ Post Office Ltd.

+ NS Service Management teams.

+ Internal Operational teams.

2.1.9.2 Roles & Responsibilities

The following list of roles and responsibilities is not exhaustive but is designed to
give a clear indication of the roles within the team:

Role Respon: S

Service Level Manager + Promote awareness of the function.

+ Define a SLM structure that includes

* SLA structure

*  OLA’s with the IT provider

+ 3° Party contracts

+ Negotiates the SLA for NB with Customer

+ Negotiates the OLA with Service Provider

+ Creates and maintains a Service Catalogue
that NB will form part of

+ Organises and maintains the regular review
process with both the IT Customer and

Provider
+ Conducts annual reviews of the SLM process
Service Level + Analyse and review service performance
Management Team against SLA and OLA

+ Produces regular reports on_ service
performance _and__achievement__to the

Reference: POLI758R 44
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

Customers and IT Provider

+ Initiate any actions to improve service levels

+ Act as co-ordination point for any temporary
changes to the NB service that are required

The following list of inputs and outputs to the AM process is not exhaustive but is
designed to give a clear indication of the requirement:

2.1.9.3 Inputs

SLM requirements of the business for the NB service
SLA's
OLA’s
Underpinning Contracts
Availability and reliability measures
Inputs from
o Change Management
© Configuration Management
o Release Management
Support hours

2.1.9.4 Outputs

Service reporting and reviewing
Customer information
Management information

Key performance indicators
Improved customer perception
Basis for charging

2.1.9.5 Recommended KPI's

Percentage of services covered by SLA’s?

Underpinning contracts and OLA’s in place for all SLA’s and for what
percentage?

Are SLA’s being monitored and are regular reports produced?

Are review meetings being held on time and correctly minuted?

Is there documentary evidence (via a SIP) that issues raised are being
investigated and resolved?

Are the SLA/OLA’s current and what percentages are in need of review
and update?

What number or percentages of service targets are being met and what is
the number and severity of service breaches?

2.1.9.6 Support Tool Requirements

To effectively support the Ideal Solution the service management tools within the
Network Support and Supplier environments should be integrated. This
integration can be achieved at various levels, ranging from the establishment of a
central management information repository, to the introduction of a common
Service Management platform across the multi-vendor environment.

Reference: POLI758R 45
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

The benefits of an integrated solution to the Network Banking service include: -

+ Assingle source for all Service Management information

+ Accurate measurement of both internal and supplier service levels

+ End-to-End tracking of all incident, problem, change requests and known
errors

+ Acentral configuration management database (CMDB)

+ More effective escalation processes

+ More accurate change planning and scheduling

+ Increased efficiency of all processes where multiple vendors would be
involved

+ More effective root cause analysis and trending within Problem
Management

2.2 Definition of the Integration Options

A scoping exercise will be conducted to baseline the existing tools within the
Network Banking environment and to establish the integration options available
to the Post Office. This exercise will contain two stages:

2.2.1 Stage 1

Assess the suitability of the existing (and planned) tools within the Network
Banking and supplier environments to support the ideal solution.

This study will focus on the following areas:

+ The current effectiveness of the tool

+ The available management information

+ The scope of Service Management processes supported (Service Desk,
Incident, Problem, Change, Configuration, Release, Availability, ITSC,
Capacity, Service Level and Financial Management)

+ The performance of the tool

* The scalability of the tool

+ The underlying database architecture

+ The format, validity and currency of the data

+ Support arrangements (and planned development cycle for the system)

+ Maintenance and version upgrade costs

+ Available interfaces (both inbound and outbound) to other systems

Note: This study will draw on any tooling studies that have already been
conducted within the Network Banking and supplier environments.

2.2.2 Stage 2
Define the options available to Post Offices for establishing an integrated Service

Management system across the Network Banking End-to-End Service
Management Model.

Reference: POL758R. 46
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

The options will be assessed against the following criteria:

+ Indicative cost

+ Indicative implementation time-scales
+ Pros and cons of the solution

* Technical feasibility

Recommendations will be made for the option that most meets the requirements
of the ideal solution.

Reference: POLI758R 47
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

3 Gap Analysis

Existing/Planned Roles and Responsi
Management Model

ities against Proposed Service

The following section identifies the ITIL processes as viewed at POL with their
relative characteristics and current usage. Further conclusions and bottlenecks
are indicated. Finally recommendations are made intended to focus the required
work assisting POL in moving towards the ideal solutions as described above.

3.1 Configuration Management

3.1.1 ITIL Description

Configuration Management covers the processes of information management on
IT assets. An unambiguous, reliable registration is of vital importance for the
control over IT assets. The Configuration Management Database (CMDB) is used
to register all IT items.

3.1.2 Introduction to Configuration Management

There is currently no single approved repository for the registration of IT assets or
their interdependencies within POL. A number of disparate asset lists and in-
house developed databases have been created containing different levels of
detail relating to IT and business-focussed systems and processes. Technical
Configuration Management (i.e. the recording of IT related equipment) is
considered the responsibility of POL’s major 3” party supplier Fujitsu Services
and Business Systems (BS); however there is some degree of record keeping
done within POL when tracking the movement of Horizon kit, or any other
equipment within the branches.

Configuration Management within POL (in particular Network Support — NS)
relates, in the main, to the management of Products and Services, not technical
equipment or infrastructure. The most comprehensive Configuration
Management database was seen within Network Support and held information on
the following products / services and their interdependencies:

+ Products

+ Tariffs

+ Contractual Documents
* Outlets / buildings

+ Items / equipment

+ Manuals / reference

+ Roles

+ People

+ Functions / groups

+ Processes

+ Data sets / applications

Reference: POL758R. 48
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

It is within this database that feed-ins occur from other areas concerned with
equipment (though not necessarily IT equipment) and technical data. For
example a weekly .mdb (access database) file is received from the Reference
data team (from the Reference Data System — RDS) detailing any changes to
baseline information relating to product/outlet attributes and relationships. It is
not known how often, if at all, these systems are cross-referenced and the
information held validated.

It is the Configuration Management team’s responsibility within NS to maintain
the information held within this database and there are some clear inputs to the
system. l.e.:

+ Harvester (Visual Basic) file containing new Cls & relationships

+ Weekly .mdb file from the Reference Data team detailing product/outlet
information

+ Weekly file from Customer Management identifying access rights / toolset
licensing baseline information

+ Weekly .xls files from Network Reinvention project managers identifying
changes to outlet/project baselines

+ Monthly .xls file from Horizon BAU Manager detailing any Horizon related
changes (these require manual input to the system)

Where any data does not fall into these clear input categories it is not clear by
which means the information is discovered and hence input to the database.
Likewise it is not clear that there are sound change management processes
supporting the maintenance of the information, the production of management
reports or the regularity of audits. Should this be the case it is a key candidate
for consideration by POL and their requirements from TSD once Network
Banking comes into play with the addition of a considerably more complex
technical environment in which to operate.

If the NS CMDB is deemed to be the hub of the Products and Services
Configuration Management process for POL (as it seems to be) it is also
necessary to make this database available to the rest of POL organisation for any
significant strategic benefit to be realised.

It is also important to communicate the associated Change Management
processes and access methods to the database more widely.

Current usage
The existing version of the NS CMDB is used to:

* manage changes to the information held on the Network Business
Support Centre (NBSC) knowledge base

+ Identify and record the movement of Horizon kit within POL branches.

+ Identify the total numbers of Horizon kit deployed in the network at a given
point in time which in turn supports the management of POL’s contractual
obligations.

Reference: POL758R. 49
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

* Manage delivery of the Network Re-invention programme and enable the
provision of key management information.

+ Assist in the sequencing of change activity across the network to minimise
disruption to customers, sub postmasters and employees.

+ Identify problems associated with specific Cls, e.g. products, branches
etc.

+ Record and identify the relationships between business continuity plans
and their impact on the automated environment.

Identification of IT assets

As previously stated, the management of IT assets is mostly outsourced either to
Fujitsu Services or Business Systems. In the new Network Banking environment
it will be the responsibility of the TSD to obtain such information from relevant 3°
parties and to amalgamate this in order to provide POL with an overall view of
their IT and branch network infrastructure.

Management and verification

Due to the ‘outsourced’ nature of IT Configuration Management the management
and verification of IT assets is currently carried out by Business Systems and
Fujitsu Services, although POL does keep track of all Horizon and other
equipment held on-site in branches. Again, in the new environment it will be the
responsibility of the 3" party suppliers and the TSD to ensure regular IT
equipment audits are carried out and any areas of concern are highlighted and
communicated to POL.

3.1.3 Conclusions

a) A simple MS Access database exists to register Cl’s (products, services
and some Horizon equipment, but no IT assets) within NS

b) The NS CMDB seems to be a part of some POL Change Management
processes but not all, and there is no evidence of documented Change
Management processes directly relating to the upkeep of the information
of the database in general.

c) Configuration Management function currently exists in a limited form — full
Configuration Management has not been committed to with POL and it is
not IT focused

d) Reports do not exist but there is the capability if KPl’s were to be

introduced

e) There is little evidence to show that other Service Management processes
use the CMDB.

f) The CMDB is on a standalone tool (Access) that is not supported by
organisation.

g) There are links to some key tools but is not integrated with Remedy — the
main Service Management toolset

h) Identification of Cl’s and its Base Level is understood within NS
Configuration Management only

Reference: POLI758R 50
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

i) No verification audits are carried out
j) Change impact assessments are carried out by silos without use of the
CMDB

3.1.4 Recommendations

a) POL would benefit greatly from the outsourcing of the technical
Configuration Management function, enabling them to concentrate on their
core business, whilst still being provided with the necessary overall picture
of the technical infrastructure that Network Banking presents. This overall
view will enable POL to make sound Service Management decisions with
better control and understanding of the IT Infrastructure.

b) The outsourced Configuration Management function should manage a
centralised CMDB using an appropriate support tool — to be agreed between
TSD and POL.

c) A Configuration Manager role should exist within the TSD. The role &
responsibilities should be clearly defined between POL and the 3” party
supplying the TSD, with interfaces and expected reporting requirements
agreed and understood by both parties. This process should be reflected
in the Quality System and any Contracts.

d) The Configuration Management data (however supported) should enable
the (technical) Configuration Items to be at a level which link to other
items and be accessible to many support areas. A decision needs to be
made as to whether technical Configuration data (which must be available
to the TSD and other Service Management disciplines such as Change
Management) will be amalgamated with the existing ‘Service
Configuration Data’ that is held in the NS database. If the information is
not integrated into one support tool serious consideration must be given
as to the management of Changes within each of these separate
databases and the integrity of the information upon which Service
Management (such as Change & Availability) decisions are based, and
from which management reports are extracted.

e) The right to update information should be rigorously restricted to
authorised people. Changes to the repository should be logged, for quality
and management reporting purposes.

f) Identification of Cls and the Base Level need to be clear and carried out
by TSD and the following questions must be answered:

- What information on the IT infrastructure is needed to be able
manage the IT services efficiently and effectively

- What information is needed for reporting purposes;

- What information does POL and TSD expect to need in the
future;
Which tool can support our decisions

g) Once established, the repository should be capable of producing reports
relating to the status of Configuration Items e.g. items on order, installed,
under repair etc.

h) There is a need for a verification/validation process. Staff and
management need to be able to trust the information and there needs to
be formal processes in place to ensure that information submitted by 37
party suppliers is timely and accurate. If verification reports that the data

Reference: POLI758R 51
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

is not accurate, measures should be taken to improve the process. This
should be the responsibility of the TSD Configuration Manager.

i) Ownership of IT assets must be clearly established.

j) Status accounting is an essential part of Configuration Management. The
historical data on status should always be accessible for analysis
purposes. This will allow for analysis of weak components or
maintenance, etc.

3.2. Service Desk / Incident Management

3.2.1 ITIL Description

The Service Desk is the single point of contact for end users. The Service Desk
deals with complaints from end users, provides support for the use of business
procedures by end users and provides end users with information on the
business service provision. The Service Desk acts as an intermediary between
the business service organisation and the end user. The implementation of the
Service Desk in an organisation should be such that: -

+ Every end-user has one contact point, their Service Desk, within the
Network Banking Support Centre organisation regarding questions and
queries, advice and any NBSC Service disruption or requirement.

+ All contacts between the end-user and the NBSC service provider should
be via their Service Desk.

+ The Service Desk provides prime information concerning incidents to
other designated IT functions.

+ The Service Desk should always represent the interests of the end-users
within the IT organisation.

+ The Service Desk owns all incidents on behalf of the business and is
responsible for closing all incidents, but not necessarily responsible for
fixing them.

3.2.2 Introduction to Service Desk

POL operates two distinct Service Desks situated at Dearne House, Barnsley.
The first Service Desk is Post Office External (POEx) which is an internally
outsourced desk by Consignia Customer Management (CCM). POEx is a one-
stop desk for use by the general public to enquire about Post Office related
issues. For the focus of this report a concentration will be made on the second
desk operated by NBSC. The assumption is that any technical difficulties
experienced by the public in relation to the Card Account Programme (CAP),
Network Banking or Electric Funds Transfer at Point of Sale (EFTPos) will be
reported directly to a postmaster or a sub-postmaster at point of failure.

This report recognises that there will be an increase of calls to POEx, but it is the
NBSC, which will be, impacted the most by the new projects.

The NBSC operates a Single Point of Contact for POL Counter Services (POCL).
It supplies an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system with three options to
divert callers to the correct support area.

Reference: POLI758R 52
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

The first option is the "Incident Management Team" which is responsible for
dealing with incidents, such as robberies of branches. This option is operated 24
hours a day. The core hours operated at Barnsley are 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., with all
calls after the core hours are transferred automatically to a call centre at Oxford.

The second option is the Horizon System Helpdesk (HSH). This option is also
operated 24 hours a day, with all calls transferred to the Fujitsu Services
Helpdesk.

The third option is NSBC which operates 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Monday to Friday
except Wednesdays when the operational hours are 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., where the
extra cover is for balancing issues at post offices. There is also a slightly reduced
service on a Saturday 8 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.

The NBSC is made up of two levels of expertise, the first line is known as tier one
and the second line team is referred to as tier two. Should third level expertise be
needed for NBSC, second level will call upon the expertise directly from business
units to aid in the incident resolution.

The NBSC also has several internal support groups:

* Incident Management

* Performance Implementation Advisors
* Capacity Management

+ Projects & Training Team

+ Customer Relations

Incident Management is responsible for monitoring real time trend analysis
reports, which are located in a Lotus notes database.

Performance Implementation Advisors will communicate pro-actively with
branches about process improvements.

Capacity Management function is responsible for ensuring that there is enough
staff available per shift to maintain levels of service from the Service Desks.

Projects & Training function are responsible for staff training needs analysis and
managing work undertaken to ensure when projects go live all appropriate
documentation and changes in working practices are in place.

Customer Relations is a complaints department, handling complaints about the
performance of NBSC or the HSH.

The software package used by the NBSC for recording and tracking incidents is
Remedy. Currently, approximately 20,000 calls are recorded on Remedy each
week, including all queries and incidents received.

Reference: POLI758R 53
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

3.2.2.1 1°%-line support:

The Service Desk Advisors on tier one are responsible for taking all initial records
passed through from the IVR. Tier one currently resolves 80%-85% of all
incidents received, well over the 75% target. Tier one is also expected to collect
and record on the Remedy system, sufficient data for Tier two to be able to
continue to resolve an incident.

The two tiers both utilise the Kbase knowledge management system, which
contains all procedures, including, work arounds. NBSC has a well-structured
scripted greeting for the callers into the service. Although a unique number is
automatically given to an incident record, it is not the practice of the NBSC to
quote a reference number to the caller. All calls received are recorded by
category and allocated a priority.

Calls are escalated to tier two should tier one not be able to solve the incident.
Tier two resolve around 80% of all incidents passed to them initially. Any
incidents that that need further investigation are done by tier two with the aid of
business unit specialists.

Fujitsu Services logs all the incidents received by HSH on the incident recording
system. The incident record does have a unique identifier that is communicated
to the caller. Should the HSH desk be unable to resolve the incidents initially it
will call back with a resolution to the incident originator or escalate the incident to
problem management.

3.2.2.2 Interface between POL and Post Offices:

It is unlikely that the NBSC is being bypassed by POL counter staff going directly
to business units for help in resolving their incidents.

The NBSC does not receive an IT Forward Schedule of Change (FSC) from
change management detailing forth coming changes that have a potential impact
to POL. The NBSC is used to communicate any changes in company Policy,
Procedures to the Post Office branches.

The NBSC is only responsible for business process and procedure related calls
though tier two has been resolving incidents relating to the Horizon system which
should be resolved by the HSH.

3.2.2.3 Management reports:

The Incident Management team produces and monitors real time trend reports
produced by Business Objects form the Remedy System. The following report is
a sample of the trend reports available:

+ Incidents reported by against each client.
+ Incidents reported by against the Horizon System.

Reference: POLI758R 54
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

Incidents reported by against categories per day.
Incidents reported by against categories per hour.
Incidents reported by against each branch.
Incidents reported by against each region.
Incidents reported by against postcodes.
Incidents reported by against post town.

3.2.3 Conclusions

a)
b)

c)

q)

e)

f)

9)
h)

The current Service Desk will not be able to cope with technical incidents.
The demarcation of responsibilities between the tier two and HSH need to
be resolved, as tier two is receiving and resolving Horizon related
incidents, which is leading to a confusion of resolver group responsibility.
A review into why high volumes of calls are being transferred between
HSH and NBSC (totalling approximately 3000 calls a month) is needed,
as this problem may increase once the TSD has been put in the place.
The interface between the Service Desk and Change Management needs
to be strengthened. As the main focal point for POCL end-users, when
they have a problem, the Service Desk should have stronger
representation at Change meetings. Without this, the ability of Service
Desk management to plan effectively in advance, in relation to resource
and training needs, is seriously affected. There is also a potential risk of
being unprepared, where IT changes results in an increased number of
calls. The level of pro-activity of the Service Desk in raising customers’
awareness of pending IT related changes could also be improved.

There is a need to formalise the non-contractual agreement called the
Interface Agreement, detailing how incidents are handled between NBSC.
and Fujitsu Services. All agreements between external and internal
suppliers should be standardised formal agreements.

The Remedy tool set has been developed to deal with incidents relating to
business process and Horizon system incidents. The future requirements
of the system need to be identified and documented.

Better integration between the different incident management systems
operated by the NBSC and its suppliers.

The distribution of the trend reports seems to be limited to within the
NBSC Service Desk environment.

3.2.4 Recommendations

a)

b)

The implementation of a Technical Service Desk (TSD) to manage and
take ownership of technical Incidents on behalf of POL. This desk will
provide a skilled single point of contact for technical support requests.
With the implementation of the TSD it becomes increasing imperative to
insure that resolving teams only take ownership of incidents that are
defined within their scope. This will ensure that correct metrics for each
delivered service are being produced, as well as ensuring that staffing
levels for each service are set to the correct level.

Reference: POLI758R 55
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

c) A formal relationship with related Service Management processes needs
to be established. The NBSC Service Desks should get involved at the
awareness stage of an IT related change which has the potential to
impact the POCL services and be involved in suitable change
management meetings.

d) The one external supplier to POL Service Desks has an interface
document detailing the relationship between the supplier and POL. The
interface document needs to be ratified and produced in a standard
SLA/OLA format.

e) A review should take place of the current effectiveness of the call logging
software package. Terms of reference should be drawn up which would
require the identification of all requirements, including the need to deal
with integrated processes.

f) As part of the review listed in e), the review should also look at the
different options available to either implement a single tool across the
different suppliers or find a technical solution to allow integration between
the different tool sets.

g) To ensure the most productive utilisation of these reports a promotion and
wider distribution of the trend reports is necessary. Trend data is an
essential part of the problem management process; therefore a review is
necessary to ensure the trend data needed by Problem Management
needs to be undertaken.

3.3 Problem Management

3.3.1 ITIL Description

Problem Management is a discipline that deals with the processes of identifying,
diagnosing and solving problems and preventing disruption to the supplied
services.

The main concepts and definitions within Problem Management are:

+ An incident which is an operational event, which is not part of the
standard operation of a system. It will have an impact on the system,
although it might be slight and may even be transparent to users

* A problem which is a condition identified from multiple incidents
exhibiting common symptoms, or from a single significant incident,
indicative of a single error for which the cause is unknown

+ A known error which is a condition identified by successful diagnosis of
the root cause of a problem, when it is confirmed that a Configuration Item
is at fault

3.3.2 Introduction to Problem Management

The Problem Management function is situated at the Dearne House, Barnsley
site. Problem Management is part of NS operated by the POL.

Reference: POLI758R 56
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

The Problem Management team reports to the Service Quality Manager and is
comprised of five Problem Managers with six Problem Analysts reporting into
those Problem Managers. The other teams within the group are Business
Continuity Management (BCM, five analysts), Process Efficiency (PE, three
analysts) and the Configuration Management (CM, two analysts) . The core hours
of operation for the Problem Management team are between 9:00 a.m. and 5.00
p.m.

The Problem Management function is proposing a restructure of the team. The
restructure would see the appointment of a Duty Manager from one of the current
five Problem Managers. This role would require the Duty Manager to be on call
24 hours a day. The remaining four problem managers would report into the Duty
Manager. The Problem Management team will also restructure to take into
account the Network Banking project by allocating a dedicated Problem Manager
for that service.

The types of Problems managed by the POL Problem Management team fall into
two distinct types:

+ Business process related problems.
+ Horizon system related problems.

The current role of the Problem Management team is well documented and
understood throughout the business organisation. The Problem Management
team is responsible for the raising of problems on the Remedy system, tracking
and monitoring the problem until resolution. Each problem raised is given a
unique number for identification and reporting purposes.

The Process Efficiency (PE) team is also responsible for Problem Management.
The PE team proactively identifies Post Office branches that need advice and
guidance in utilisation of POL business procedures.

The current Problem Management procedures are well documented and include
a high level process, a more detailed generic process and a major incident
handling procedure.

The software package used to monitor the problems is Remedy. All temporary
work-arounds identified and produced are stored in Kbase a POL Intranet
solution, utilised predominantly by Tier one and Tier two.

3.3.2.1 Major Incident control:

The Problem Management team at POL have a well-documented procedure for
the major incidents (i.e. an incident of significant impact that is escalated to a
Problem). Members of the NBSC service desk escalate the major incidents to the
Problem Management team, when it becomes apparent that there is a major
incident or an abnormal number of calls being received by the Service Desk
indicating a potential problem occurring in POL business operation.

The Problem Managers do not manage the major incident; instead the BCM team
members manage it. They will check the incoming data and check the data

Reference: POLI758R 57
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

against decision trees located in the Major Business Continuity Incident (MBCI)
Trigger Guide. Once the major incident has been accepted as a MBCI it is owned
by the BCM team or if the major incident is deemed not to be an MBCI the
ownership for resolution will be reverted back to Incident Management within the
Service Desk function.

After the successful resolution of the MBCI a Post Incident Review (PIR) will be
carried out to determine any further actions that would safeguard the business
services in the future.

The Problem Management team interfaces Fujitsu Services who are responsible
for the Horizon System. The relationship between the POL Problem Management
team and Fujitsu Services is documented in the Interface Agreement Document
detailing the procedures for major incident handling.

During a major incident involving Fujitsu Services a duty manager from the
supplier acts a central point of contact for the Problem Management team. The
duty managers co-ordinates the work being undertaken by Fujitsu Services staff,
whilst the POL Problem Managers communicate to the business via the Crisis
Management team. The Crisis Management team is made up of senior business
managers within POL.

3.3.2.2 Problem / error control:

Problem Management investigates all incidents that are progressed by the
Incident Management function located in the NBSC. Once recorded in the
Remedy System the Problem is passed to Problem co-ordinators. The Problem
co-ordinators are nominated experts in their business units. They will ensure that
a problem is progressed in their area and an appropriate solution is delivered.
This solution will take the form of a temporary procedure (TP) or an agreed
temporary procedure (ATP). Problem Managers will ensure the problem is being
progressed, due to, the Remedy system keeping the Problem Record in the work
queue of the Problem Manager.

Incidents that have progressed to Problem or MBCI are not easily linked to a
change. It is difficult to see changes done to the POL IT environment and Horizon
environment, as there is no published Forward Schedule of Change (FSC).
There are distinctions made between Incidents, Problems and Known errors on
the Remedy system. Categorisation happens in an Incident Record;
categorisation is not done within a Problem Record.

The Problem co-ordinators have access to the Remedy system, and are able to
update the Problem Records assigned to their business unit. The Problem
Managers monitor the quality of information within the Problem Records.

Known errors are progressed into the Kbase knowledge management system.
Here all the TPs and ATPs are accessed by tier one and tier two. ATP’s can be
quickly accessed and work arounds conveyed to the business users. Kbase is
only used for IT related issues stemming from the Horizon system.

Reference: POLI758R 58
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

3.3.2.3 Proactive Problem Management:

One of the main purposes of the Problem Management function is to insure a
proactive approach to dealing with business issues. To this end Problem
Management undertakes Root Cause Analysis (RCA) either from trends identified
by the Incident Management function at the NBSC or after a MBCI. Currently,
Problem Management concentrates mainly on MBCls.

Trending on incident information is undertaken by interrogating and analysing
Remedy records via Business Objects. However, it is a team called ‘Incident
Management Team' within the NSBC that is responsible for producing and
initially investigating emerging trends. The flow of information generated by the
Business Objects reports needs to be distributed to the Problem Management
teams.

3.3.2.4 Management reports:

The Problem Management monthly report includes a management summary of
the previous month highlighting key problems and issues faced. The report also
lists all problems opened up during that months reporting period and a section on
outstanding problems older than 3 months.

The report also includes the number of open problems remaining and groups
these by the total number of days outstanding. The report also shows a
breakdown of problems owned by the business units, with a further section
dedicated to the amount of problems affecting each POL service.

Problem Management performance metrics also form a section in the monthly
report. Within the performance section there is an activity dedicated to quality
assurance of information recorded in the Problem Records.

3.3.3 Conclusions

a) Problem Management currently monitors, tracks business process related
problems and Horizon system problems.

b) The service levels that have been set for problem and incident handling
need to be realistic and in harmony with other dependencies.

c) The Problem Management process and procedures whilst being well-
documented need to be reviewed for consistency and relevance.

d) The adequacy of the software package in relation to the new service,
needs review

e) A review of the Performance Implementation Advisors function and the
Process Efficiency analysts further needs to undertaken.

f) A review into how problems are escalated and prioritised.

g) Root Cause Analysis needs to be applied to all incidents to ensure that
trends are being identified and underlying issues dealt with.

h) Stronger links between Problem Management and Change Management
need to be built and understood.

i) A review of Problem Management supplier meeting needs to be
undertaken.

Reference: POLI758R 59
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

j) A review of the working relationship between the Service Desk/Incident
Management and Problem Management.

k) There is a need for harmonisation of operational working hours between
the Service Desks/Incident Management and Problem Management.

!) The creation of a more comprehensive configuration management
database would greatly enhance the effectiveness of problem impact
analysis.

3.3.4 Recommendations

The role of Problem Management needs to be expanded to the following areas:

Future IT suppliers to POL
Internal IT suppliers to POL

As the IT infrastructure needed to deliver the services of POL expand due to
the Network Banking Project, the diversity and complexity of the
interrelationships between IT infrastructure components and their related
business process will increase. In order for Problem Management to truly
manage the problems created from Network Banking Service it must be able
to affect all components listed for an end-to-end service provision. Problem

Management must be able to effectively interface with all suppliers both

external and internal to insure that co-operation across different expertise

domains is progressing problems identified, which are affecting the business
adversely.

b) All service levels should be reviewed and standardised into a format
which can be rolled out to all existing suppliers to POL both internally and
externally, with a view to ensuring all new suppliers providing services to
POL conform to the same standards.

c) The one external supplier to POL Problem Management has an interface
document detailing the relationship between the supplier and POL. The
interface document needs to be ratified and produced in a standard
SLA/OLA format.

d) POL has undergone rapid change's over the last 12 months, it is essential
that all documentation related to Problem Management be reviewed and
updated with all the new name changes to reflect the current organisation.

e) Problem Records on the Remedy System use mainly free text fields, there
is currently no categorisation pick lists to open a problem record or on
closing a problem record. With a view to improving the Problem
Management function and with the potential increased needs for the
expanding POL service provision in Network Banking, a review of how
Problems are categorised need to be taken.

f) The PIA analyst role and the PE analyst role should be combined to
produce one team that will effectively advise and mentor branches on
operating procedures. It would also ensure single ownership of
improvements to be communicated to the branches, instead of one team
having to inform another team of what needs to be communicated to the
branches; this would provide a more efficient process.

Reference: POL758R. 60
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

g) Currently the way in which problems are prioritised is working well. The
Network Banking project and the possible expansion of the Problem
Management function would mean a speedy way of prioritisation of more
varied Problems will need to be made. The speed of the current system
for prioritising Problems would possibly limit the effectiveness of the future
development of the Problem Management function.

h) The NBSC Incident Management team does produce trend reports on
incidents recorded in Remedy. Clear lines of demarcation of roles and
responsibilities need to be agreed between the Incident Management
team and the Problem Management team, detailing how trend reporting
and progression is accomplished. This review into roles and
responsibilities should be done at the same time as the review outlined in
recommendation f).

i) With the advent of the proposed Technical Service Desk a need to
produce a requirements document for how trend information will be
reported on and passed to the POL Problem Management team needs to
be undertaken.

j) The Problem Management team does not have sight of a FSC detailing all
the planned changes to the IT Infrastructure of POL. A review of how
changes are communicated to Problem Management needs to take place.

k) Problem Management has an established monthly meeting with Fujitsu
Services to discuss problems and issues. Problem Management would
need to increase the scope and attendees of the meeting by having all
suppliers attend. The suppliers would be from both internal and external
to POL. This will ensure that cross platform issues are expedited
efficiently and effectively.

I) The current ownership of the meeting is shared between Fujitsu Services
and Problem Management. The future meeting would be a forum chaired
by the Problem Management team to ensure consistency.

m) A review on how incidents are escalated to problem management needs
to take place, as there is a perception that Problem Management may
need earlier warnings of incidents with the potential to cause a significant
impact to the business. As part of the Remedy review the requirement for
automatic alerting to certain categories of incident into the Problem
Management area may be considered.

n) A synchronisation of working hours between Service Desks and Problem
Management will ensure that disparity between operating times no longer
exists, with Problem Management being able to respond to all incidents
that need to be escalated. This will become more critical as the services
offered to the branches increase with real time banking.

3.4 Change & Release Management

3.4.1 ITIL Description

Change Management provides a mechanism to manage the _ initiation,
implementation and evaluation of changes in the operational IT organisation.
Controlled implementation of changes is vital for a reliable and flexible IT service.
Change Management is a generic process that covers the IT infrastructure

Reference: POLI758R 61
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

(hardware, software, and documentation), the IT services (SLAs, service
characteristics) and the IT service organisation (structure, procedures).

Release Management comprises activities concerning planning and overseeing
the successful rollout of software and related hardware and to ensure that
hardware and software being changed is traceable, secure and that only correct,
authorised and tested versions are installed. Further, it covers the management
and distribution of operational software that must restrict the risks of unauthorised
use, unauthorised change and destruction.

3.4.2 Introduction to Change & Release Management

Change in POL consists of two key areas managing Change Deployment and
Service Development and there are two key roles responsible for the provision,
and management, of effective change. They are:

* Network Change Control Team (belonging to the Operations Directorate
and are part of NS);

+ Infrastructure Programme Integration Team (part of Change and IS
Directorate Change Control) dealing with Company Wide Change
Initiatives

The first of the two groups is responsible for day-to-day data driven and ad-hoc
changes and / or those that come under the PACE Change Control Process
(described in more detail below) and is headed up by Nick Embling. The latter
deals with any changes resulting in New and Changed capability within POL
services and is headed up by John Bruce. The diagram below illustrates the
split:

Reference: POLI758R 62
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

Product Manager
raises,

J

Product Change
Request (PCR)

I

Impact
Assessment

a

‘ NS (Change
Development _Reference Data
Change & IS _j¢ Development <P’ Ray) >—riven Change Implementation

Technical / development

carried out by,
Segments

¥
Fujitsu / Business Outiet
‘Systems (oBc)
i} ¥ —y
EPOsS AP Outlet Network Banking

PACE (Progressing & Achieving Change Effectively) is an accelerated Change
Process for ‘standard’ Product Changes. It is the responsibility of Beverley
Dunn's teams in the Change and IS Directorate and is a process which seems
well understood and adhered to throughout POL. If a product is present on the
PACE selection list then it can enter the accelerated Change Process,
encouraging best practice by minimising unnecessary bureaucracy and “red
tape”. In terms of best practice Change Management this is one of the most
effective ways of encouraging adherence to the process by those involved in
Changes and is an efficient and cost effective way to manage standard changes
from a business perspective.

Within Nick Embling’s Network Change group there are a number of sub-groups:

Network Chenge
Manager
f 1
Product Operational Change [Change Deployment Network Banking
Suppor Communications Implementation Pianaing Development
Reference: POLI758R 63

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

The Change Implementation Team based at Farnborough manage all Reference
data driven changes including automated payments and EPOSS changes (a
manual version of AP) and is managed by Rabia Cody. The actual changes are
made by Fujitsu Services, but are tested for acceptance by (Operational
Business Change) OBC, part of the Change Implementation Team. This team
will also be involved in managing the day-to-day reference data driven changes
within the new Network Banking environment.

OBC have 2 clear documented change processes detailing the lifecycle of
changes in the following areas:

+ Products
+ Network (of branches)

The scope of the OBC function is to be extended to include similar affecting
changes in the new Network Banking environment and it is the responsibility of
OBC within NS to develop the processes in time to incorporate Network Banking.

Currently Reference Data is stored in the POL Reference Data System (RDS),
owned by Business Systems but NS are responsible for data input to the system.
This contains version controlled release and network (branch) information which
is replicated with Fujitsu Service’s equivalent system (RDMC). There is more
information held on the Fujitsu Services RDMC database than POL’s and future
access to some of this extra information has been mentioned as something that
would be useful to POL. Some of the information relating to the branch networks
within POL RDS is also duplicated within the NS CMDB.

A ‘reference data model’ exists which has been expanded to incorporate Network
Banking requirements and it is understood within OBC that the current interface
agreements between themselves and Fujitsu Services with regard to Change
Type Catalogues and associated lead times will need to be replicated with the
new suppliers that Network Banking brings.

The Change Implementation Team test any product changes (reference data
driven) and are responsible for authorising the change to be released into the live
environment. The process is clear and documented and seems to work well,
though there are sometimes problems with the communication of changes
generated from other parts of the business. Indeed the Change Implementation
team are made aware of some changes for the first time when they are contacted
by Fujitsu Services requesting “live release” authorisation.

The team have their own Change Management Database, built in-house on
Access, which is only shared within this team and it is said to be fairly unstable.
The OBC team are looking for an alternative solution to support their work.

By mid May 2002 Change Management will be responsible for the management
of ALL aspects of the Operation Directorate changes. This is due to the merger
of the Change Control and Change Deployment teams (currently separate).
These teams are being combined in order to provide a holistic view of the impact
of any changes enabling the assessment of all changes not only from a technical

Reference: POLI758R 64
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

perspective but also taking into consideration the “personnel” and branch
capacity issues.

The team will be made up of 10/12 people receiving Product Change Requests
(PCRs) from the business as a first official point of contact which, in turn, will
trigger an impact assessment to be carried out.

The Change Control team is currently split into 2 segments:

* Product Support, who are based at Gaverelle House and are responsible
for actioning day-to-day improvements to products &

+ Development Co-ordinators based at Prospero House who look at and
support major business changes and the major change program
published by Change & IS Directorate. They also co-ordinate all NS
changes. Request inputs to this team are mainly from Change & IS and /
or Strategic Alliance Directorate either direct or through Business
Architecture (BA).

The Change Deployment Team will continue to act as the Operations Change
Communications team. They are based at Gavarelle House and are responsible
for the production of manuals and instructions of new processes, and “Counter
News’ — a weekly newsletter distributed to all branches.

Change and IS Directorate is responsible for the Change process as a whole
across POL. They are the owners of the Business Change Plan and look at the
changes which have been scheduled ensuring strategic alignment. The
Business Architecture group (headed up by Sue Harding) is also responsible for
checking each major change for strategic alignment and have a 10 box model
against which changes are compared to ensure all areas affected by the change
are considered before approval. Key interfaces with Change and IS are OBC —
responsible for managing physical changes in outlets and Business Systems
(BS) — those responsible for on-site POL technical support. They also produce
the Business Release Plan.

There is also a Change Control Board consisting of representation from both
POL and ICL Pathway and there are representatives from the Infrastructure
Programme Office (headed up by John Bruce) who sit on this Board. The
Infrastructure Programme Office is part of Change and IS and manages the
Change Plan, Release Plan and is responsible for the integration of change
across POL. The documented processes used by this team detail the basic
operation of change control for the Change & IS area, in particular the Horizon
system operated by Fujitsu Services. They also cover the back end systems
that provide accounting / management information for POL, supported by
Business Systems (BS).

Overall Change & IS Infrastructure Change Control are responsible for:

+ validating a change request and ensuring that it is complete and that its
intention can be clearly understood

Reference: POLI758R 65
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

* registering a change request on the Programme change database
(another separate database, not widely used within POL and certainly not
available across directorates)

+ identifying what dependencies there are from a change and what areas
within or external to the Programme are likely to be affected by it

+ deciding with the originator / business owner who should be involved in
the impact assessment

+ determining the length of the assessment period

* issuing a change request (CR) to impact assessors and ensuring that they
respond in due time

* confirming where the responsibilities for funding and authorising the
change are and that budgetary provision has been made and approved

There is an in-house built database which belongs to the Infrastructure
Programme Office which holds information pertaining to Horizon System
Changes. This database is exclusively available to this team to assist in the
management of their work and is built using Access 2.0. The team are looking to
move it to a Lotus Notes platform.

To summarise into ITIL best practice elements, POL performs the following:
3.4.2.1 Acceptance/registration of changes:

In most cases there are clear, unambiguous and well documented processes by
which the relevant teams are made aware of the need for Change. However,
there is not a single point of entry for the registration of changes, nor a single
repository containing detail of ALL changes.

3.4.2.2 Planning and Control of changes:

As previously mentioned it is the Change & IS Directorate who manage and own
the Change and Release Plans for all of POL, but there does not seem to be a
clear link into these documents from NS and any changes they may generate,
perhaps as part of their 3" line support role. There seems to be sound planning
and control of changes within the individual ‘change involved’ directorates, but a
lack of co-ordination between the two.

3.4.2.3 Check on the execution:

It is clear that Change Management within both Change and IS and Operations
Directorates ‘keep tabs’ on the entire change process when a change is their
responsibility. It is not clear however (as the individual supporting databases
were not viewed) how change progress is documented or registered — and
consequently reported on.

3.4.2.4 Evaluation of changes:

The Horizon Change Request Form is a standard template used by the Horizon
Change “involved” teams. It contains detail of the Change requestor, the
purpose, impact and description of the change (including the impact of not
implementing), the urgency and costs. However it does not seem to have a
“review” section so it is not clear whether changes are reviewed within POL at all,
whether successful or not.

Reference: POL758R. 66
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

There is also no single standard reporting function nor single repository for the
information relating to Change Management across POL, so it is unclear how
changes and the effectiveness of the overall function is evaluated.

Software Storage:

ITIL best practice states that those parties responsible for ‘Software
Management’ should ensure that reliable copies of software items are available
to the organisation and that copies of the correct version are used for
development. This is very much managed by Business Systems (BS) and Fujitsu
Services who look after the technical aspects of POL support, owning the RDS
and RSDC Definitive Software Libraries (DSL’s) respectively.

Release construction:

A release schedule does exist within POL and there is an allocated Release
Manager responsible for the creation of this schedule and integration and
communication of it to POL, BS and Fujitsu Services.

Software Distribution & Implementation:

Again, the distribution and implementation of software or any changes to software
is actioned mainly by Fujitsu Services at this time within POL. However there are
clear processes, contractual agreements and the understanding between the 3°
party supplier and POL which mean that POL test any changes and authorise
before any releases into the live environment.

3.4.3 Conclusions

There is clearly the capability to manage all aspects of change and release within
POL. Indeed the technical, strategic, business facing, people and training issues
have all been addressed within one or more areas of the change management
teams across POL. However, there seems to be a lack of communication, co-
ordination and single repository for information within POL, particularly between
directorates which may cause some concern when the operating environment
becomes more complex.

Change within POL is severely distributed both procedurally and geographically
with no single support tool, or overall picture of change showing a full
understanding of where all “change involved” teams interface within the
organisation, their roles and responsibilities. Each team seems to have built their
own change management database to assist them in their day-to-day
administrative tasks, however, these are often on unsupported / non-standard
software products (i.e. Access 2.0) and do not enable POL to gauge an overall
view of all technical and business changes at any one time. Where change
processes do exist and work well, they are not always documented or
communicated well.

In summary:
a) There are elements of Change in many pockets throughout NS and POL,

but these are not centralised in any way and do not share any common
tool.

Reference: POLI758R 67
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

b) 3% parties manage elements of the Change process themselves and it is
unclear how well this communication process works back to NS. The lack
of documentation places POL at risk and does not make it easy to
replicate ‘good’ change management processes with new suppliers (i.e.
those introduced through Network Banking) or advertise the effectiveness
of those processes well within POL.

c) There is a lack of ability to derive impact assessment data due to a lack of
strategic configuration management database (CMDB)

d) No commonality of function at a group level. Despite the Change & IS
Directorate being responsible for overall Change within POL and having a
clear understanding of how the function should work there seems to be a
fundamental lack of understanding of roles between Change & IS and
Operations. This may simply be due to a lack of effective communication
or co-ordination between Change & IS and Operations Directorates, or
may require some re-engineering of process or more senior management
input and attention.

e) There is no clear evidence of Change Advisory Board other than the
Change Control Board which exists between the Infrastructure
Programme Implementation Team and Fujitsu Services. There is not one
CAB however which examines, co-ordinates, authorises and helps to
schedule ALL changes across Change and IS and Operations.

f) There is no clear view on where or how business criticality levels are
derived Despite there being some well understood and implemented
processes within POL and between 3” party suppliers it is not obvious
that these are documented and therefore able to be replicated with future
suppliers or easily followed by new employees.

g) There is no evidence that evaluation of changes take place.

h) Product changes follow an unambiguous test, authorisation and release
pathway, demonstrating sound understanding and application of the
software distribution elements of ITIL best practice Release Management.

i) There is a single DSL (BS RDS) which is mirrored, in the main, with
Fujitsu Services’ RDMS

j) The DSL and DHS are managed by Business Systems

3.4.4 Recommendations

a) Change Management should be centrally implemented and controlled within
the Change and IS Directorate. This function must then be documented and
well communicated to POL perhaps through workshops or presentations due
to the importance of adherence to the overall Change Management function
and the need to express the challenges presented by the introduction of
Network Banking and the purpose of the function. However, Network Support
should maintain final approval for releasing change into the Network Banking
environment.

b) A fully ITIL compliant Change Advisory Board (CAB) should be implemented

c) There should be a central unambiguous registration of ALL changes for POL

d) Categorisation, planning and priority setting should be controlled via a central
location

e) Scheduling related to capacity & resource schedules should be produced and
distributed to the appropriate resources within POL as part if the Change
Management Process

Reference: POL758R. 68
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

f) Investment should be made in a Forward Schedule of Change tool to more
easily facilitate the production of this report showing ALL changes for POL

g) Standard KPI's should be defined and agreed to measure the quality of
Change Management.

h) The definitions of change, when the change processes should be activated,
the definition of change categories: standard change, emergency change,
minor impact, medium impact, and major impact, should be documented at
an overall POL level and well communicated to advertise the scope and
understanding of Change within POL to internal staff, gaining commitment to
the processes.

i) Attention should be paid to the scheduling of changes and a Forward
Schedule of Change and ‘Projected Service Availability’ (PSA) should be
produced for ALL changes. These should be accessible to all within POL via
the Knowledge Base perhaps.

j) A standardised Change Request Form possibly based on the Horizon
Change Request Form but preferably electronic and part of an integrated
Service Management tool, will greatly benefit the company wide change
process. All parties involved in changes should have input into which fields of
the form are required (such as Impact, Category, authorisation, business
case), and which fields are facultative (e.g. preferred date of implementation).
With electronic forms, registration is facilitated. Each change should be
recorded in a central repository, to which the different support groups should
have at least read rights. The TSD and NBSC should be informed of each
emergency change. Communication pathways must be clear to ensure this
information transfer.

k) Change logs should be updated with each step of Change Management
activity, from authorisation, to build and test, to implementation and review.

1) Communication of changes is crucial. The TSD and NBSC should be made
aware of all scheduled changes. The business should be aware of scheduled
changes where there may be a business impact, for example an outage.
Support staff should have access to the Change Management database to
assist in speedy problem resolution. It is essential that incidents can be linked
to changes. Changes that are in one way or another visible to end-users
should be communicated through the NBSC in collaboration with the
appropriate communications team within POL, in order to keep the single
point of contact for end-users.

m) Third parties should introduce each change they perform through the POL
Change Process either directly or via a nominated internal party (TSD
perhaps).

n) Document Management should continue to be part of the Change
Management process and be supported by the common support tool.

©) Support teams should be involved at a consistent point in the project lifecycle
to enable their inputs to be taken into account and to allow them to
adequately prepare to test, manage the implementation of, and support new
services.

p) With the expected step change in the provision of services due to Network
Banking the number and complexity of changes will increase many-fold.
Overall control of change must be instigated, and communications improved
between the two key change groups in Change & IS and Operations.

q) Change, Release and Configuration Management must be inextricably linked.

Reference: POL758R. 69
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

r) All required information assisting POL in the effective management of change
should be obtained from Fujitsu Services’ RDMS. This must then be fully
duplicated in BS’ RDS and subsequently in POL’s CMDB

3.5 Availability Management

3.5.1 ITIL Description

Availability Management assures the optimisation of availability and reliability of
the IT infrastructure and supporting organisations providing IT services.
Availability Management systematically optimises preventive, inspective and
corrective maintenance of IT service processes. In addition to technical aspects,
organisational, procedural and security aspects play an important role.

3.5.2 Introduction to Availability Management

Within POL there is no single function responsible for planning and monitoring
end to end availability across all platforms. Consequently, no interviewees were
made available to PinkRoccade during the production of this report.

Availability targets are in place, or are currently in negotiation, for the availability
of the systems within the end to end Network Banking environment. These relate
to individual platforms and not for the end to end service. The design of the
Network Banking environment has incorporated a number of measures across all
platforms to reduce the risk of downtime experienced by the end users.

Designing and Planning for Availability:
Evidence was found of attention being given to the issues of reliability and
availability within the technical solutions designed for the Post Office.

3.5.3 Conclusions

a) Some aspects of Availability Management are carried out within other
functions e.g. Problem Management. However the full range of
responsibilities of Availability Management are not all covered across all
platforms and should be assigned. The range would include:-

+ Drawing up plans to ensure that long term serviceability objectives
are met.

+ Working alongside development teams so that project
requirements for availability are feasible and accurate and result in
relevant supporting obligations by suppliers and other areas of the
Post Office, enabling the finished product to run smoothly in
production, with no surprises.

+ Initiating changes to ensure that availability of services is improved
in a cost-effective way.

* Questioning, collecting and registering customer demands
regarding availability, in line with service levels.

Reference: POLI758R 70
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

b)

c)

qd)

+ Analysing all of the Service Areas’ infrastructure components and
those of other service delivery areas, so that factual availability
information can be collected. Configuration Management would
assist with this.

+ Registering measurements regarding availability i.e. monitoring
and reporting on availability of services and their components
compared to service level agreements.

As an adjunct to the above, there is no single point of ownership of
Availability Management.

Availability targets are currently not formally agreed with the business and
are focussed on platform specific targets and not the end to end service
that the customer receives.

The performance of third party equipment is not being monitored
consistently. Performance issues are only raised with suppliers when the
contracted service levels relating to incident and problem fix times have
been breached.

3.5.4 Recommendations

a)

b)

c)

qd)

e)

f)

9)

The function of Availability Manager should be assigned to someone
within the Network Support area, who should be asked to define the role
and responsibilities and draw up an action plan for its adoption. This
could form part of an existing role e.g. Capacity Management or SLM
Availability data should be formally discussed in order to agree on targets,
which match the requirements against the suppliers’ ability to deliver
them. These targets should reflect end-to-end availability and should then
form part of a Service Level Agreement.

A virtual Availability team consisting of representatives from each area of
the E2E environment should be established. A Bl-monthly meeting
should be held and used as a forum for the discussion of capacity
matters.

The focus of Availability targets should be reviewed and consideration
given to broadening the scope to include an end to end view of service
availability.

Before committing to targets for achievement with the branches, the
suppliers need to be inline with these numbers and signed up to them. If
targets required by the business cannot be negotiated with the suppliers,
due to reasons such as high maintenance and support costs the business
must be informed of the implications to overall availability targets.

It is important that each incident is recorded, as this will form the basis of
outage data. The actual unavailability experienced should be confirmed
with the customer at the time the incident is closed. This should ensure
that not only is the unavailability data recorded, but will avoid any
disagreements at a later date. Concentration can then be on the service
implications of the outage and any preventive action that might be taken
etc. Setting a downtime flag on the incident recording software (Remedy)
should enable such data collection to be less time consuming.
Appropriate tools should be investigated and implemented to aid the
measurement of end to end component availability. This information
should then been used during supplier meeting when discussing
performance and reliability of supplied hardware and software. Where

Reference: POLI758R 7
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

possible suppliers should be expected to supply accurate availability
information at service reviews.

h) Responsibility for collating and issuing reports to the business relating to
all aspects of service provision should be coordinated from a central
function. This is typically the service level management function.

i) Monitoring of third party supplier performance with regards to their ability
to meet availability and fix time targets should be routinely performed and
not only when an exception occurs. Creating a field within the Remedy
tool to reflect an assignment to a third party, would enable tracking and
reporting on performance to become less time consuming.

3.6 Capacity Management

3.6.1 ITIL Description

Capacity Management assures that the correct capacity is available at the right
time in the right place at justifiable cost. Capacity Management has an
operational task in ensuring that continued daily business use of IT can be
supported with the currently available IT resources. Capacity Management has
task at a tactical level, which entails the expansion or shedding of IT resources, in
order to match business needs. The amount of data that needs to be processed
and the associated performance requirements should be reflected in the Service
Level Agreement

3.6.2 Introduction to Capacity Management

Within POL the Capacity Management process is fragmented across the
business, with no single function being responsible for planning and monitoring
end to end capacity across all areas. Capacity is mainly viewed in terms of
business processes with the technical capacity being managed within each
platform area.

3.6.2.1 Capacity Planning:

Capacity planning is conducted but is fragmented across the various areas of the
business. No evidence was found of a centralised Capacity plan or Capacity
Strategy that focuses on the end-to-end environment.

3.6.2.2 Capacity Database Creation:

A central Capacity dB does not exist within the Post Office. The Capacity
interviews uncovered various capacity models being maintained within different
areas of the business, focusing on: -

* The planned impact of Network Banking on the NBSC and POEx Service
Desks. This model calculates the additional call volumes that will be
placed on each desk and gives metrics for the required staff (or Full Time
Equivalents) during the ramp-up and steady states.

Reference: POLI758R 72
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

This model is used for forecasting and scheduling changes to the
environment which could impact the Quality of Service provided at the
Branches. It is owned and maintained by Operations.

No integration has been established between these models. In addition, neither
gives an end-to-end view of the new environment.

3.6.3 Conclusions

a)

b)

c)

qd)

e)

At present capacity planning within POL is largely focussed on performing
the business process —i.e. required headcount, desk-space and telephony
equipment. The technical aspects of capacity are managed within each of
the areas responsible for the delivery of those technical services, i.e.
within the supplier organisations.

Although resources are allocated to a capacity management function
within each platform area there is no overall picture of capacity
requirements related to services delivered to the branches.

The suppliers within each platform area will be relied upon to deliver the
necessary capacity inline with the levels contracted.

Monitoring of capacity utilisation after the implementation of development
changes, to identify any differences between the forecast and actual
requirements is not conducted across all platforms.

A capacity model has been prepared within POL to assess the impact of
the Network Banking programme. This model focuses on the business
aspects of the service, i.e. number of calls taken at the Service Desk. It
does not provide information on the additional network and transaction
loads generated by this increase in calls.

3.6.4 Recommendations

a)

b)

Consideration should be given to creating a process owner for the
Capacity Management function. The resources currently allocated to this
role for each platform should feed into this ‘owner’. This would enable a
picture of capacity utilisation, performance and requirements across all
platforms to be established.
A single Capacity Plan should be compiled within the framework of the
above Capacity Management process as it relates to and is appropriate
for POL. This plan should encompass all platforms and all connectivity
within the Network Banking environment through to the end users. This
would ensure that the issues were considered and adopted from the
beginning. It would also ensure that related service management
processes are considered and interfaces built between them. The
characteristics of the process should include:

+ Performance data, based on collected measurements and

compared regularly with service levels

+ Ability to influence customer behaviour

+ Ability to predict capacity requirements with confidence

+ Involvement in application sizing

+ Influence with suppliers (and vendor management)

+ Assessment of project impact on resources

+ Data used as a basis for charging

Reference: POLI758R 73
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

c)

q)

e)

f)

9)

h)

+ Data being fed into a Service Catalogue
+ Data being fed into financial processes
+ A feed into investment decisions
+ Awareness of business plans
+ More accurate budgeting
+ Keeping track of savings and benefits that Capacity Management
realises.
Consideration should be given to the development of an end to end
capacity model for the Network Banking environment that focuses.
Steps should be taken to ensure that Network Support become involved
in the lifecycle of projects to assess and advise on capacity requirements,
to improve cost effectiveness, utilisation of resources and reduce the
possibility of bottlenecks.
A virtual capacity team consisting of representatives from each area of the
End-2-End environment should be established. A Bi-monthly meeting
should be held and used as a forum for the discussion of capacity
matters.
Consideration should be given to establishing a testing environment that
enables the simulation of the live environment that covers all platforms for
heterogeneous applications.
Notification of time-scales for stress testing within the supplier areas
should be clearly defined; feedback from these tests should be fed to the
central capacity management function within POL.
End to end capacity management workshops should be held with
suppliers, focussing on: -
- The tool sets used for performance and workload monitoring. If
required, the plans should be made to enhance these tool sets.
- Plans for stress testing in the pre-production environment, to
determine the impact upon capacity resources.
- The interfaces required between the supplier capacity processes
and the central capacity management function within the Post
Office.
Consideration should be given to utilising those tools currently used for
reactive purposes, for real time performance monitoring.
Priority attention should be given to the current thoughts regarding the
acquisition of additional tools, to monitor and trend performance of
networks and associated equipment, particularly relating to modelling.

Reference: POLI758R 74
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

3.7. IT Service Continuity Management

3.7.1 ITIL Description

IT Service Continuity Management comprises the processes that deal with
planning for extreme circumstances where the IT-service organisation is unable
to supply the IT service provision in the normal way. The importance of Service
Continuity lies particularly in ensuring the continuity of the IT service provision in
the event of disasters. Service Continuity is responsible for preventing and
rectifying the failure of an operation-critical IT service formally established within
the organisation.

3.7.2 Introduction to IT Service Continuity Management

An ITSCM team is established within the Network Support business unit. The
team is largely none technical. The focus of the process is primarily on ensuring
that the supplier organisations and other internal business units deliver the
contracted levels of continuity, inline with contracts. The main activities include: -

+ Preparing of the continuity plan in accordance with the overall business
continuity strategy.

+ Performing quality assessments of each of the supplier continuity
documents.

* Ensuring that supplier continuity tests are conducted inline with the
provided test schedule.

+ Ensuring feedback from these tests is reviewed and the necessary
changes made to the continuity documentation.

A close working relationship has been created between Network Support ITSCM
and Fujitsu Services. The interfaces between the two organisations are now
mature and effective, having been steadily improved since the start of the
contract. The required ITSCM interfaces have been formalised through the
introduction of interface agreements defining the roles and responsibilities on
each side.

To ensure that Main Business Continuity Incidents (MBCls) are efficiently
escalated to the ITSCM team a Trigger Guide document has been established.
The NS Problem Management team, to ensure effective escalation of all MBCIs
to the ITSCM team, uses this document.

3.7.2.1 Business Impact & Risk Analysis

Formal Risk Analysis techniques such as CCTA Risk Assessment Management
Methodology (CRAMM) are not utilised by the NS ITSCM team. The analysis of
the risk of disaster is largely dependent on the knowledge of the individuals within
the ITSCM team.

Reference: POLI758R 75
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

3.7.2.2 Contingency plan

An overall contingency plan exists within POL. This plan is controlled through
change control and is structured according to the POL Business Continuity Plan
Standards.

The ITSCM team ensures that all supplier contingency arrangements are
documented and copies stored within the NS CMDB.

3.7.2.3 Testing & Return to Base

The Fujitsu Services testing schedule is passed to the NS ITSCM team in
November of each year. Members of the team are not required for each supplier
continuity test; however the feedback is fed back to the NS ITSCM process
where it is reviewed.

Supplier continuity plans are quality assessed and scored by the NS BCM team.
Each document and its subsequent revisions are stored within the CMDB.
Regular, scheduled tests are conducted against each of the supplier continuity
plans to assess: -

+ The conformance of the document to POL Continuity plan standards.
+ If the plan is ‘fit for purpose’.

Feedback from the tests is delivered to the supplier organisations. The team,
following the same process, reassesses all subsequent revisions to the
document.

3.7.2.4 Preventive action

Technical resilience is built into the architectures of each of the platform areas. In
addition, the NS ITSCM team will assess and make recommendations on the
continuity measures within the end to end environment.

3.7.3 Conclusions

a) The NS ITSCM process within the current environment is mature and
effective. A transition plan is currently in place to extend the scope of this
process to cover each additional supplier within the planned E2E
environment. A four stage transition is planned:

+ Stage 1 - Conduct Service Provider Continuity Assessments

+ Stage 2 - Definition of the NS E2E Continuity Strategy

+ Stage 3 - Establishment of Interface Agreements with each
external Service Provider

+ Stage 4 - Establishment of Interface Agreements with each
internal Service Provider

b) The team has completed the product descriptions and is currently on
target to ensure that the NS ITSCM process will meet the needs of the
new environment.

Reference: POLI758R 16
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

c) The team members interviewed are well trained and knowledgeable on
their subject. As with many small teams, specialists have developed
within different continuity areas, this dependency on key individuals is
seen as a risk.

d) The team has been invited to give feedback on the continuity measures
within the agreed design of the Network Banking environment; however
they are concerned that the project time-scales will not enable any
initiatives recommended by the team to be acted upon.

3.7.4 Recommendations

a) Knowledge Transfer within the team is largely ad-hoc although workshops
do take place. These knowledge workshops should be formalised
occurring monthly.

b) To further improve knowledge retention within the team a knowledge base
should be established. This will exist in addition to the NS CMDB, and
may take the form of a shared network drive accessible by each team
member. Background documents along with the output from each
knowledge workshop should be placed on the ITSCM Knowledge Base.
To aid access to this drive, a document index should be prepared and
maintained by the team.

c) A virtual TSCM team consisting of representatives from each area of the
End-2-End environment should be established. A Bi-monthly meeting
should be held and used as a forum for the discussion of continuity
matters.

d) To further strengthen the process, more focus should be placed on
understanding the technical continuity measures employed by each of the
suppliers. This will require the development of additional technical skills
within the team.

e) The minimum levels of operation to be delivered in the event of a disaster
should be communicated to the business. This will ensure that
expectations of both the business and the branches are managed.

f) Consideration should also be given to carrying out a simulated disaster to
measure to assess the effectiveness of each supplier's continuity
arrangements.

g) POL should ensure that they maintain the final approval of the invocation
of supplier disaster recovery procedures.

h) A procedure should be implemented that creates a link between
contingency planning and Change Management. The procedure should
cover updating contingency plans, with recovery details of any new
services or enhancements to existing services. All changes, particularly
new projects, should be assessed with respect to their impact on the DR
Plan.

Reference: POLI758R 77
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

3.8 Service Level Management

3.8.1 ITIL Description

The goal for Service Level Management (SLM) is to maintain and improve IT
service quality, through a constant cycle of agreeing, monitoring and reporting
upon IT service achievements and to instigate actions to eradicate poor service —
in line with business and/or cost justification. Through these methods, a better
relationship between IT and its Customers can be developed.

The future SLM process for Network Banking (NB) should ensure that:

+ The NB service is designed to meet Service Level Requirements

+ It enables improved relationships with satisfied customers.

+ All parties to the agreement have a clear view of roles and responsibilities
relating to the NB service and that there are no misunderstandings or
omissions.

+ There are specific targets to aim for and against which service quality can
be measured, monitored and reported on (if you can’t measure it you can’t
manage it and if you can’t manage it you probably don’t care!).

+ IT effort is focused on the areas that the business believes are key.

+ IT and customers have a clear and consistent expectation of the level of
service required from NB. Priorities are agreed and understood.

+ Weaknesses are identified through effective service monitoring by the
suppliers, so that remedial action can quickly take place.

+ Service monitoring by the suppliers should also show where Customers or
User actions are causing the faults within NB and identify where working
efficiency and /or training can be improved.

+ It underpins the supplier management for the NB service

+ The SLA should be used for a basis for charging for the NB service and
therefore help demonstrate the value that the Customers are getting for
their money.

3.8.2 History of Service Level Management within Post Office Ltd (POL)

SLM within POL was created within NS to support the Horizon contract. Since its
inception, it has developed into a mature unit within Network Support and is
responsible to ensure that SLA’s and OLA’s are consistently met in order that the
service offered to its Customers by Fujitsu Services (ex: ICL Pathway) is of the
best quality achievable.

3.8.3 Introduction to Service Level Management

Within NS there is a Supplier and Performance Management Team, responsible
to ensure that the services provided are measured, monitored and managed to
enable the delivery of business benefits to POL Customers. The team consists of
a Service Level Manager and 8 staff.

There is no ITIL compliant Service Catalogue, but the information that would
normally be used to populate such a catalogue is available, but not necessarily in

Reference: POLI758R 78
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

one place. The Service Catalogue would normally contain details of all services
provided including:

+ Business priority

+ Service Name

+ Version Number

+ Service Description
+ Service Hours

+ Availability Target

* Back up details

+ System Owner

+ Key Contact

There are plans to further enhance the SLM team, albeit the plans were created
for the existing services and not to cater for Network Banking

A new SLA is currently being developed that will cater for Commercial, Directly
Managed and Social Offices.

3.8.3.1 Negotiate and agree SLA’s

There is no specific Services Management Team, dealing with Customers. This
is currently catered for within the SLM team.

User Review Group Forums are held in 10 locations every 6 months. At these
events a mixture of staff come together and are invited to comment on the
services provided by NS. NS conduct an additional forum every 1 to 2 months
with Retail

Customer satisfaction surveys are conducted for the NBSC desk, but not for the
Fujitsu Services Pathway service. Individual engineers do however leave a
survey form when they visit outlets for maintenance purposes.

3.8.3.2 Managing Service Levels

NS make use of a Codified Agreement to define each element of the services
provided by Fujitsu Services. This includes information regarding Service Level
Agreements (SLA’s). For example POCL Infrastructure (which is very
comprehensive) contains the following:

+ Service Definition

+ Acceptance Criteria

+ POCL Responsibilities

* Roll Out and Implementation
+ Service Management

+ Service Transfer

+ Service Levels and Remedies
+ POCL Contingency Services

Reference: POLI758R 79
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

There is a Service Review Framework in place (currently under review), for the
Automated Network incorporating Horizon. This contains information regarding
service review processes:

+ between POCL and ICL Pathway

+ between POCL and Post Office Customer Management Ltd. (POCML)

* review processes internal to POCL, which feed the service review
hierarchy

* review processes which incorporate relevant interfaces with IT

Also contained within the Framework are sections on the following:

+ Service Review Structure

+ Service Management Forums (including Horizon Service Review Forum,
Automated Services Forum, Operational Level Forums)

+ New Requirements

+ Operational Processes Forum (Problem Management, Business
Continuity etc.)

+ Systems Groups (Transaction Data Forum, Reference Data Forum etc.)

+ Ete.

A number of Support Processes are included in the service review, namely

+ Incident Management

+ Problem Management

* Change Management

+ Service Improvement Process

+ Risk/Issue Management Process

The SLM team have created a matrix containing the key targets for service
availability for each supplier. This is an excellent method for understanding the
commitments required for the NB service.

3.8.3.3 Management Information
Suppliers have their own scorecard. There are over 100 different service targets
for Fujitsu Services alone that contribute to their scorecard.

Suppliers provide information to POL on a monthly basis

Fujitsu Services Pathway now provide a trusted service and report by exception
in their monthly service review

Some information is sent to the user community via publications. This usually
consists of particular events that have happened relating to the services
Additionally some MI is sent out prior to the User Review Group Forums

Reference: POLI758R. 80
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

3.8.4 Conclusions

a) There is a very competent and professional SLM function in existence
within NS. However the existing structure may not be able to cope with
the demands of the NB service. There will be a requirement to enhance
the current SLM team for NB. This may be in numbers, but could also be
in expertise.

b) There is no ITIL conformant Service Catalogue in existence. For the NB
services such a catalogue would be invaluable to NS and the POL
organisation in general.

c) The new SLA being developed for Commercial, Directly Managed and
Social Offices will prove useful in managing suppliers and customer
expectations.

d) There are no even handed (neutral) individuals between the business
areas and SLM to report on service, or act as customer champion when
issues arise.

e) With the implementation of NB, it will be necessary for SLM to conduct
Customer satisfaction surveys, in order to gauge satisfaction with the
service. Output from this can then be used as input to a Service
Improvement Programme.

f) There are Service Level Agreements (SLA’s) in evidence for the services
currently managed by Fujitsu Services on behalf of POL. These form part
of the Codified Agreement.

g) There is a comprehensive Service Review Framework in place that is
used to good effect by the SLM team and contributing areas

h) The matrix created for the Network Banking key targets will be very useful
and will enable the SLM team to see at a glance what the suppliers are
committed to and therefore be able to manage them accordingly.

i) Management Information is provided and distributed by NS to the
recipients of the current service.

3.8.5 Recommendations

a) SLM is a critical function and should continue to be totally owned and
controlled by NS for the NB service. However the SLM function may
employ the Fujitsu Services TSD to collect service data on its’ behalf from
the various suppliers.

b) A comprehensive project plan (PRINCE2) for managing the SLM
functions for NB needs to be instigated and will include:

+ Appointing the new members of the team. The current staffing
may need to be enhanced to support the NB service.

+ Define the roles, tasks and responsibilities.

+ Production of a Mission Statement for the new team to encourage
focus and commitment.

+ Definition of the objectives and scope of the new function

+ Starting an awareness campaign to win support and advise people
of their commitment and attain support.

+ Quantifying the activities, resources, funding and quality criteria

+ Consideration of implementing a Service Catalogue and
agreement of the SLA structure

Reference: POLI758R 81
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
End to End Service Report

c)

qd)

e)

f)
)

+ Identifying any support tools for SLA monitoring. In the case of
NB, these may be provided by the relevant suppliers
+ Setting and agreeing Incident priority levels and escalation paths,
with customers and Internal and External suppliers. This will have
to be done in conjunction with the relevant suppliers Service
Desks and Problem Management functions
The SLA currently being developed for Commercial, Directly Managed
and Social Offices needs to include the requirements for NB.
Consideration should be given to appointing a NB Service Manager who
will ensure End to End protection and assurance of the service on behalf
of the customers.
Within 3 months of the launch of the NB service, a survey of the key
customers should be undertaken and published within POL. This should
form the basis of a Service Improvement Programme. The exercise
should be repeated 6 months later.
The Codified agreement needs to be extended to include the NB service.
The Service Review Framework needs to be restructured to include the
NB service. A whole new structure of Operational, Service and Contract
review forums needs to be instigated with the following:
+ Fujitsu Services

+» LBM.

+ LINK

+ Alliance and Leicester
+ EDS.

+ Consignia Customer Management (C.C.M.)
+ Business Systems Business Unit (B.S.B.U.)
+ Post Office Ltd.

Reference: POLI758R 82
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report
4 Costs
In the proposal dated March 4" 2002, there were some cost estimates given for undertaking a Service Development programme that

would move the current organisation to a more mature level in terms of Service Management processes. These costs have now
been refined in light of the recent work and as requested by POL, a cost matrix has been produced.

4.1 Cost Matrix

The following cost matrix summarises the investment that POL will have to make in order to support the Network Banking service.
The matrix shows three states of readiness:

Achievable Solution the level of maturity that can be achieved before the launch of Network Banking (6 to 9 months).
Desired Solution this is the desired maturity level (9 to 12 months)
Ultimate Solution the ultimate maturity level which would take approximately 18 months to achieve.

In summary the costs are as follows:

Achievable £728,600
Desired £903,050
Ultimate £1,474,475

These costs are given in more detail in the following table.

Reference: POL/758R 83
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

Cost Matrix for Network Banking Service Management
ig

Current
Maturity
Process:
Incident Cc
Problem c

Change AW

Config. IN
Release c
SLM Cc
Availability A
Capacity A
BCM AW+
Tools

Maturity Key: A= Absence, IN= Initiation, AW= Awareness, C= Control, I= Integration, O= Optimisation

84

Reference: POL/758R
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097
POL00394097

End to End Service Report

Cont...

Project Costs:
Managing Consultant
Project Support
Director

For further details of the PinkScan maturity levels, see APPENDIX A — ITIL Best Practice Model and APPENDIX B — Process
Maturity Overview

Reference: POL/758R 85
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)
POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

5 APPENDIX A - ITIL Best Practice Model

Phase
Absence 0 -0.9

Description

Nothing present

Characteristics

Initiation 1-1.9

Tangible developments
on field of interest

+ Policy statements at tactical level
+ Words but no deeds
+ No allocated means

Awareness 2 -2.9

Allocated means

+ Aimed at tool, 'tool solves all problems'

+ Positions created, but not defined

+ Reactive

+ Standardisation for the benefit of direct control

Control 3 -3.9

Formalised

+ Visible results

+ Management reports

+ Tasks and authorities defined
+ Active instead of reactive

* Tuning demand and supply

+ Documentation

+ Formal planning

Integration 4-4.9

Clearly defined elements

+ Clear direction

+ Active relations with other processes
+ Effective management reports

+ Improvements in significant steps

+ Links to strategic policy

Optimisation 5-5.9

Elements work optimally

+ Proactive

* Quality section

+ Continually monitored improvement

+ Policy integrated with business policy
+ Integral responsibility/self control

+ Innovation

PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

87

POL00394097
POL00394097
End to End Service Report

6 APPENDIX B - Process Maturity Overview

ITIL Process Maturity

Incident Mngt

5

Service Level Mngt , Problem Mngt

Availability & Capacity Mngt ©

Change Mngt : Business Continuity Mngt

Reference: POL/758R
PinkRoccade UK, May 20, 2002 / Version: 1.0 (Final)

~ Configuration Mngt

— Current
—— Desired

0 Absense

1 Initiation

2 Awareness
3 Control

4 Integration
5 Optimisation

0 for ane

rg atitute
“C apabiityM aturty ode?”

88

POL00394097
POL00394097
