POL00056628

POL00056628
07 July 2011
Mr Khayyam Ishaq
Post Office Lid
3° Floor

Royal Mall House
Clippers Quay

Salford

so

nw

Dear Mr Ishaq

Re: Birkenshaw Post Office Branch

Further to your recent interview with the Post Office Lid Security Team on 7 April 2011 a second interview is now required

The reason for the second interview is that during the interview on 7 April 2011 you raised a number of points that we took away and explored

‘urther. These points now need to be clarified and I am writing to invite you to attend a further voluntary interview with the Post Office

Security team to give you the opportunity to explain your version of the events surrounding these new developments.

I have arranged the interview for Thursday 04 August 2011 at 11am. The interview will take place at Bradford South Delivery Office

Stonearches Ripley Street Bradford BDS 7RS. If you make yoursetf known at reception, I will be informed of your arrival.

I would be grateful if you could confirm in writing that the above time and date is convenient for you to attend.

I must remind you that we are investigating possible criminal offences and as such the proposed interview will be under caution and taped.
recorded,

Your legal rights will be explained to you in full at the interview, however so that you are aware of them I will detall a brief summary of them

now.

1. should you attend the interview - itis on a voluntary basis - you do NOT have to remain

tthe interview - you are NOT under arrest.

2. You may wish to seek legal advice from a solicitor before you attend this

Interview - Your solicitor may also attend the interview with you.

3. In adition to your right to consult with or have a solicitor present - you may also have a Post This fiend is classed

fice friend present.

as someone over the age of 18 years of age and is currently employed by the Post Office, he or she must not be involved in the enquiry,
POL00056628
POL00056628

07 July 2011

If you have any queries, please phone me on the number above.
Alternatively it you engage the services ot a solicitor you may pass this letter onto your solicitors for them to deal with
I would also be grateful if you could update me regarding the selling of your property to repay the outstanding amount and the letter of

undertaking that you stated you would supply,

Yours sincerely

Stephen Bradshaw
Fraud Investigator

Post Office Ltd Security Team
