POL00084055

POL00084055

Compliance Team Policy / Process for Performing a Branch Audit

Document Information

Title Audit Process Manual
Category Standard
Subject Performing a Branch Audit — Chapter 3 of Audit Process

Manual

Version Control

4.0

Author

Audit Process & Change Specialist

Owner Risk & Assurance Manager

Purpose Outlining the preparation, on site and post audit processes
associated with the audit of accounts at Post Office® branches
as well as Compliance testing.

Audience Network Support Audit Team

Keywords Audit of Accounts

Privacy level In Confidence

Document format

Chevin Light 14/12

Document type

Electronic (MS Word. Doc), Paper,

Review date June 2008
Expiry date Ongoing. Due for review in April 2009 (or for Horizon NG
changes)
Approval
Role Name(s) Date
Business input Branch Audit Lead Team Jan 2004
Assurance Branch Audit Lead Team Jan 2004
Authorised National Branch Audit Manager Feb 2004
Authorised National Branch Audit Manager Sept
2005
Authorised Network Risk Manager Dec 2006
Authorised Risk & Assurance Manager July 2008
Version control
Version No. Reason for issue Date
Version 1.0 Original process 01/07/03
Version 2.0 Revised as a result of annual review. First new 13/01/04
version a draft for comment
Version 2.1 Amendments to layout, punctuation and 14/01/04
referencing details. Some minor changes to
content.
Version 2.2 Further amendments following input from lead 09/02/04
team
Version 2.3 Further amendments and additions following input I 19/02/04
from National Audit & Inspections Manager
Version 2.4 Changes to Section 10 — Franchise and Multiple 23/03/04
branches
Version 2.5 Changes to reflect changes to job titles, 10/06/05
discrepancy reporting, ALARM and CARM, new
report template, SVM’s, Paystation, ATMs and
DMBs.
Version 3.0 Revised due to introduction of Branch Trading 12/09/05
Version 3.1 Revised due to change in job titles 07/11/05
Version 3.2 Changes to the presentation of the chapter — 21/12/05

additional appendixes.

POL00084055
POL00084055

Version 3.3

Changes to update: ATMs, introduce branch
codes, NBSC hours, planning activities, additional
reports, Cats

16/03/05

Version 3.4

Changes to update: P32 changes & ECF
completion guidelines

07/04/06

Version 3.5

Changes to update: department names/contact
numbers & additional post audit activity.

01/07/06

Version 3.6

Changes post ODR

25/09/06

Version 3.7

Revised to include Compliance Testing level 2
NBSC audit call deleted

ECF completion revised

Change of role names

Update contact points (Appendix K)

Revised text for precautionary suspension

30/12/06

Version 3.8

Hyperlinks added to the index page, giving rapid
access to each section and appendix; and
inclusion of a hyperlink ‘Top’ after each section to
return to the index page.

22/01/07

Version 3.9

Revised to include legal requirement and new
appendix on Auditing Without Horizon

17/05/07

Version 4.0 draft

Updated manual to include Financial Assurance
Audit

30/06/08

Version 4.0 draft

Updated to remove Tier 1 references

31/10/08

Version 4.0 draft

Process maps included

03/11/08

Version 4.0 draft

Generic terms used for Audit Leader and Audit
Officer

Audit Leader = Network Support Field Advisor or
Network Support Team Leader identified as person
leading the Audit.

Audit Officer = any member of the Audit Team
visiting the branch.

03/11/08

POL00084055
POL00084055

INDEX

AUDITING A BRANCH --- PROCESS MAPS Page 4
SECTION 1 PREPARATION ACTIVITIES Pages 5-6
SECTION 2 PERFORMING A FINANCIAL AUDIT Pages 6 - 16
SECTION 3 GUIDELINES FOR COMPLETION OF THE P32 Pages 16 - 23
SECTION 4 VERIFICATION OF THE REPORTED FIGURES Page 23--24

SECTION 5 REPORTING OF IRREGULARITIES AND DISCREPANCIES Pages 24--
27

SECTION 6 PERFORMING A COMPLIANCE AUDIT Pages 27—29
SECTION 7 CLOSE OF AUDIT MEETING Page 29—30
SECTION8 AUDIT REPORTING FOR STANDARD AUDITS Pages 30--33
SECTION 9 POST AUDIT ACTIVITIES Page 33
APPENDIX A IDENTITY VERIFICATION LETTER Page
34

APPENDIX B CROWN BRANCHES Pages
35 --36

APPENDIX C FRANCHISE AND MULTIPLE BRANCHES Page
37

APPENDIX D OPEN PLAN AND COMBINATION FORMATS Page 38
APPENDIX EATMs Page 39
APPENDIX FSMOKE AND DYE PACKS Page 40
APPENDIX G ACCESS TO THE HORIZON SYSTEM Page 41
APPENDIX H NAVIGATIONAL PATHS FOR HORIZON REPORTS Page
42

APPENDIX J DEALING WITH DISCREPANCIES REVEALED AT AUDIT Page 43

APPENDIX K CONTACT POINTS & GUIDANCE NOTES Page
44
APPENDIX LAUDITING WITHOUT HORIZON Page 44

The above sections detail the audit process to be followed at agency, multiple,
franchise branches and Crown branches.
POL00084055

POL00084055
AUDITING A BRANCH --- PROCESS MAPS
Attached are Process Maps from planning the audit to e-mailing the completed P32.
"Process Map
Process Manual 3.doc
Key symbols on Process Map
This box is an action or activity This box is used to capture system
use
i.e. p32
Weekly plan is issued
by Scheduling Lead
Advisor Auditor
prepares
This box is requires a decision to be made This box means that the audit has

started elsewhere and now this type
of

audit is required.

Hand-IN:
from
Financial
Assurance
Audit

Lead Audito}
contacts
colleagues to

This box means you now have to go to another Arrows are used to guide to the next
of type of audit steps within the process.

—

Go to Tier 2
With

Suspension
Audit process
map

The Scheduling Advisor will allocate a lead Auditor as part of the Audit Plan and
Scheduling process. It is the responsibility of this designated lead Auditor to fully
prepare the audit, lead the audit on site, report financial irregularities and subsequently
complete the required post audit activity, including the audit report.

SECTION 1 - PREPARATION ACTIVITIES
POL00084055
POL00084055

1.1 Open the latest version of the electronic Audit of Accounts (P32/P33). Once opened,
the P32/P33 must be saved as the branch code, date, name of branch for example,
023323.010105 Wakefield.xls — this will prevent accidental overwriting of the original
P32/P33 template and also allows future changes to be saved, as the original is a “save
only” template. Robbery and burglary audits should be saved in the same format but
should be pre-fixed with R or B respectively e.g. RO23323.010105 Wakefield.xls.

1.2 Check the Post Office Ltd Intranet site for branch profile details. (There is also a
link incorporated into the P32/P33 planning sheet that can be utilised to obtain branch
data). This will provide data on the branch address and opening times. In order to
access this detail you must be connected to the intranet.

Please note: - If an Auditor arrives at a branch scheduled to be open (info detailed on
the intranet), but finds it is closed, this must be reported to their Line Manager as soon
as possible. Do not alert the Subpostmaster to the fact that you have come to do an
audit, as it is unlikely that access will be given and the surprise element of the audit will
have become compromised.

1.3 Access the Lotus Notes P32 library to examine the previous audit report and extract
all recorded control gaps. The date of the previous audit can be obtained from the prep
data and or the branch details files. Both these files are held on the Compliance Team
Library.

1.4 Make, organise travel arrangements. In every case, the most cost effective mode of
travel and most time efficient route must be selected to travel to the branch in
accordance with the current Business Travel Expenses (BTE) policy. Pool, lease and
hire cars should be utilised and, where feasible scheduled by the Scheduling Advisor in
the first instance. However, the Audit Officer should look to make changes if necessary.
Public transport and car sharing must also be explored.

Please note: - The current BTE policy states that where public transport, use of a pool
car, lease car or a hire car is identified as the most suitable means of travel, but you
choose to use your own car, the business will only reimburse the category 2 mileage
allowance.

1.5 Audit leader to communicate meeting arrangements if more than one Auditor is
attending. It is also important that all Auditors attending are aware of their role at the
audit. Avoid meeting other Auditors directly outside a branch as this could compromise
the surprise element of a visit. Also, contingency plans should be considered and
discussed at this stage to cover expected actions should problems arise. For example,
where:

e One or more of the team is late arriving
e One or more of the team does not attend (sickness, bad weather)
e The lead Audit Officer does not attend or is late

1.6 For audits commencing after 8.00am the identity card issued to Audit Officers
should be sufficient identification to gain access to a branch. The Subpostmaster could
contact the NBSC to further validate identification before allowing entry to the secure
area.

1.7 For audits commencing prior to 8.00am, a verification letter must be prepared prior
to the audit, Appendix A. This should be presented to the Subpostmaster together with
identity cards on arrival at the branch to be audited. This should prove sufficient
evidence of Audit Officers’ authenticity to gain admittance. However, if the

5
POL00084055
POL00084055

Subpostmaster requires further verification the Team Leader should be contacted on
the mobile number identified within the verification letter. For this reason the Team
Leader must be notified in advance of the audit and provided with the details of the
Audit Officers attending and their identity card numbers.

1.8 Complete the Main menu/planning sheet within the P32/P33. The sheets must be
fully and accurately completed. If planning is not completed prior to the audit, the white
box on the Main menu sheet must be completed and a valid explanation recorded. The
explanation must be significant for planning not to have been performed, (simply
recording “insufficient time” or similar is not appropriate at the planning stage).

1.9 Details of compliance tests to be undertaken are detailed in section 6 of this
chapter.

1.10 Complete the CAT planning sheet within the P33. The sheet must be fully
completed including:

e Reasons for not examining any compliance test. The correct abbreviations to be
used by selecting from the comment box.

e Total number of all control gaps at last audit

e Summary of all control gaps at last full audit

e Initials of Audit Officer scheduled to perform the compliance test

If for any reason changes occur to your plan whilst on-site, you must detail any changes
in the appropriate column. This, also to include whether or not a test has been aborted,
extended or observations have been made that result in a further test being carried out.

1.11 Also refer to appendixes B, C, D and E of this chapter at the preparation stage if
prep data identifies that the branch to be audited is:

Crown Offices

A franchise or multiple

Open plan or a combination store
An ATM branch

1.12 Compliance Only audits

e Open P33 and from the Main menu sheet select Cat planning as normal

e Check Segmentation database and Training databases for further branch
information and confirmation of trained staff re: Reg. Compliance & Mails
Integrity

For All Audits please ensure that you have copy of current display instructions and all
relevant Ops manuals & training workbooks relating to AML/ FS/Travel Ins/Credit Card /
Mails and HomePhone

SECTION 2 - PERFORMING A FINANCIAL AUDIT

The objective of the financial audit is to determine the value of cash, stock and vouchers
on hand by completing the P32 document, and comparing this to the system derived
balance due to PO figure (using the latest declared branch trading statement, and
reports obtained from the Horizon system).
POL00084055
POL00084055

The P32 must be completed on-site for all financial audits, robbery and burglaries
except transfers and closures.

2.1 Gain entry to the branch to be audited. This should be done immediately upon the
Subpostmaster or staffs arrival on site. His/her access to the counter area and the
assets should, ideally, be avoided without the presence of an Audit Officer. The
Subpostmaster or staff could contact the NBSC before allowing access however and
this will mean that Audit Officers will have to wait outside until their identity has been
confirmed by the NBSC. The Subpostmaster or staff should be advised that he/she
should not access cash, stock or the Horizon system until the Audit Officers have
gained access. In these circumstances, any irregularity should also be documented
and a transaction log obtained from the Horizon system, to ensure there has been no
activity on the system before the Audit Officers were allowed access. If the
Subpostmaster refuses to allow entry to the premises, explain that the Audit Officers
have the right to verify Post Office Ltd assets and that the Subpostmaster is
contractually obliged to allow the Audit Officers access to do this.

If entry is still refused then advise that it may be necessary to involve the police to
ensure access, and contact your Line Manager for further advice and to discuss the
situation.

2.2 Before the audit commences, the lead Auditor should make introductions and
discuss the audit process with the Subpostmaster, ensuring that audit requirements are
made clear and that the Subpostmaster is also aware of his/her responsibilities. The
discussion will include:

e Ascertain if the branch operates shared or individual stock units. If branch
operates individual stock units, ensure that access can be gained to all the cash,
stock and vouchers held within the stock units. If full access cannot be gained,
this must be reported to your Line Manager without delay.

e The need to identify and produce all cash, stock and vouchers at the outset of
the audit. (It is important that this is stressed to the Subpostmaster and that the
location of all cash stock and vouchers is identifiable by the Audit Officers,
especially if outside the secure area). As only cash and stock produced at the
outset of the audit can be included in our figures.

e The importance of the Subpostmaster or stock holder witnessing the check of
cash

e The obtaining of Horizon reports, branch trading statements, ONCH declarations

etc. required for the audit

The initial audit approach e.g. how the cash and stock will be checked.

The estimated opening time of the branch

Facilities for Audit Officers (e.g. working area, toilets)

The secure accommodation for laptop cases, equipment, handbags

Other aspects of the audit — compliance testing, reconciliation of non-value stock

The close of audit meeting and the opportunity for the Subpostmaster to

comment on any findings

Please note: - This list is not meant to be definitive, the discussion may be extended
but the above should be included as a minimum.

2.3 If the audit takes place on a Thursday, following the completion of a branch trading
period, and the branch trading statement(BTS) has not been fully completed, then you
need to ascertain if all the stock unit/s have been balanced and rolled over into the next
POL00084055
POL00084055

trading period. If they have but the trading statement has not been produced then ask
the Subpostmaster/OIC to complete this whilst you count and agree the cash on hand. If
the stock unit/s have not been balanced and rolled over then contact your Line Manager
and keep the branch closed until you have been given instructions on how to proceed
with the audit. It is important that the branch is balanced and rolled over into the next
branch trading period and this must be completed before the Audit Officers leave the
branch. The final branch trading statement can then be completed during the course of
the audit. The following are possible (but not exhaustive) scenarios, where it may be
found that balances are not completed on a Thursday audit following completion of a
branch-trading period:

Single stock branch

Branch should be kept closed until the stock unit is balanced and rolled over to current
branch trading period. The audit can now be commenced but the
Subpostmaster/O/Cshould be asked to produce the final branch trading statement as
soon as possible. Ideally the branch trading statement should be completed before

leaving the branch.

Dual stock branch (OOH — out of hours (lottery) - counter)

If the OOH stock unit has not balanced then check the counter stock whilst the
Subpostmaster/OIC balances the lottery stock. Once the lottery stock has been
balanced and rolled over allow the branch to open for business. The Subpostmaster
should be requested to produce the final branch trading statement as soon as possible.
Ideally the branch trading statement should be completed before leaving the branch.

Multi stock branch (without out of hours)

The branch should be kept closed until all stocks have been balanced and rolled over.
Once this has been completed, the branch can be allowed to open for business once
the Audit Officers have verified sufficient stocks and the lead Auditor is satisfied. The
Subpostmaster/OIC should be asked to produce the final balance trading statement as
soon as possible, and ideally this should be completed before the Audit Officers leave
the branch.

Multi stock branch (with OOH — out of hours)

Branch should be kept closed until all stock units, including OOH, have been balanced
and rolled over. Once sufficient stocks have been checked and the lead Auditor is
satisfied, the branch can be allowed to open for business. The Subpostmaster/OIC
should be asked to complete the final balance trading statement as soon as possible
and, ideally, this should be produced before the Audit Officers leave the branch.

If a branch is trading in the wrong BTS period regardless of the day of the audit contact
your Line Manager before allowing the branch to open.

2.4 Establish where all Post Office® cash, vouchers and stock are held. As previously
mentioned, only cash and stock produced at the outset of the audit must be included
and access must be restricted during the financial audit. There may be circumstances
where access cannot be gained to some value items that are to be included in the audit.
The following are examples:

e Over-locked safes
e Locked drawers or stock units
e Keys or key-holder not available

This must be reported to your Line Manager as soon as possible for further action and
advice. Your Line Manager will subsequently report the situation to the Contract

8
POL00084055
POL00084055

Advisor and Fraud Team Manager. Any actions arising from discussions should be
communicated to the lead Auditor as soon as possible. The value of such items should
be discounted from the audit. The discrepancy must be fully explained in the audit
report.

Please note: -For Franchised/Multiples, the nominee/post office representative should
be contacted at the outset of the audit to give them the opportunity to attend. If not say
you will contact them with the audit result and findings.

2.5 Determine if any non-standard transactions are performed at the branch:
Bureau

ATM

SVM

Lottery

Paystation

Again, not a definitive list but any cash and stock relating to non-standard transactions
must be obtained, verified and included in the audit.

Access to all cash, stock, vouchers and branch trading statements should be restricted
until they are checked and released by the audit leader. Where there is only one Audit
Officer on site conducting the audit then it is important that the check of the cash, stock
and vouchers is performed in the presence of the Subpostmaster/OIC and this must be
stressed at the outset of the audit.

2.6 Checks of cash (and ideally, stock and vouchers) on hand should be undertaken in
the presence of the Subpostmaster or stockholder. The importance of the
Subpostmaster /stockholder witnessing the financial audit must be stressed to the
Subpostmaster/OIC. Where this is not possible, or the Subpostmaster/OIC chooses not
to be present, then checks must be made in the presence of another Audit Officer. It is
important that any checks are not made in isolation. Both the Audit Officer and
stockholder should acknowledge the accuracy of the figures following the check.
Please note: - If the branch is equipped with Smoke and Dye notes, please refer to
appendix F.

Please note: - Where a discrepancy is highlighted, the Subpostmaster and/or another
Audit Officer should verify the findings and sign the cash and or stock sheet to confirm
that the figures to be used as part of the audit are correct.

2.7 lf necessary, display a special notice advising the external customers that the
branch is not going to open at the advertised time. The notice should give details of the
approximate time of reopening and alternative branches that can be used. The NBSC.
should be telephoned and advised that the branch is to be temporarily closed. (The
NBSC should also be contacted when the branch re-opens). Contact — NBSC ¢ 1

! 2, select options “0” then “2” ‘

2.8 Obtain the previous period end branch trading statement or a re-print from Horizon
System. The figures should not be altered by the Audit Officer in any way or made
illegible, as these may need to be produced at a later date, possibly as evidence in a
court of law. With the exception of franchise / multiple branches, check with the
Subpostmaster/OIC whether any discrepancy in the previous branch trading statement
has been physically adjusted e.g. loss made good, surplus withdrawn. Following the
path ‘Desktop » (F2) Reports » (F7) Events Log » (F2) Balancing, can carry out a
check on the Horizon system to confirm that the made good/ withdrawn option was
selected.
POL00084055
POL00084055

Please note: - the Subpostmaster is given four options when clearing the ‘local
suspense’, and prior to the rolling over into the next branch trading period:

e Remove excess cash
e Make Good - Cash

« Make Good — Cheque

e Settle Centrally - only available for a discrepancy in excess of £150.00

In the case of franchise / multiple branches the only option will be:
e Assign to Nominee

The Horizon system will not roll over unless local suspense is clear.

Once a Subpostmaster has elected to make good a shortage by way of either cash or a
cheque, this is their declaration to say that the loss has been made good. Failure to
make good losses and submission of an incorrect declaration should be reported under
usual conditions as detailed under section 5.

Examine the suspense account to determine if anything is being held and, if so, whether
or not it is proper to be included in the audit. The only items that can be held in the
suspense account are
e Remittance shortages
Remittance surpluses
Cash in pouches
Robbery / burglary losses awaiting clearance
Emergency suspense payments (authorised by the NBSC)

Supporting documentation should be on hand to support all entries. Remittance
shortage and surpluses must be authorised by the suspense account team (reference
number obtained), via the NBSC.

2.9 The following report printouts must be obtained from the Horizon system, examined
and filed with the working papers in line with the current retention process:

e Un-reconciled/outstanding transfers report — for multi stock branches, must be
obtained prior to obtaining both office and balance snapshots. If there are
outstanding transfers, action these then obtain the following

e Transaction log for the day of the audit (audits commencing before opening
hours - only) - this report must be produced regardless of whether or not you feel
the Horizon terminal has been accessed prior to audit attendance

e Office snapshot

e Balance snapshot for each stock unit - including where the branch operates an
individual stock unit

e Previous Branch Trading Statement

e Foreign currency holdings

e Outstanding summaries (to verify vouchers / cards on hand):

Giro deposits / withdrawals

NS&I deposits / withdrawals

Personal banking deposits and withdrawals (manual transactions)

Green Girocheques

>» Redeemed savings stamps (POSS)
e Suspense account report
e Transaction corrections outstanding

VVVV

10
POL00084055
POL00084055

e Transaction corrections processed (this will also show instances whereby
evidence has been requested — entries will be preceded with an ‘E’

e Remittance summary (ins and outs) for the trading period

e Reversal reports — RV and ER back to last branch trading statement. You may
wish to specify a period or if left blank the report covers up to 90 days.

e User summary - obtain a list of all users and detail their full names. This can
then be checked by accessing the ‘modify user’ screen and checking that all
entries are current and in the correct format.

e transaction log detailing all transactions over £5000.00 — this will help when
carrying out the Regulatory Requirements and Standards CAT

Please note: - Further reports can be obtained from the Horizon system as required
e.g._stock adjustment reports, event logs and further transaction logs for investigation
purposes. The above list is not exhaustive. However, this should be seen as the
minimum.

For more information about how access should be obtained to the Horizon system,
please see Appendix G.

Navigational paths to assist with obtaining the above reports can be found at Appendix

2.10 Obtain the cash declaration/s for the day prior to the audit. The declaration from
the Horizon system, as well as any local record, if maintained, should be examined, as
they will assist with the verification of the cash on hand. If the branch is unable to
produce a cash declaration then details of the last declaration can be obtained from the
event log. (stock balance / declare cash or Reports — Daily - Cash Dec)

2.11 Count and record all the cash on hand, in the presence of the stockholder or
Subpostmaster (using standard audit cash input form) and verify / compare the cash
figure to that declared and to the figure held on the office snapshot. Remember to count
and include lottery takings (which should be paid in daily), cash from Paystation
transactions and cash held in ATMs, SVM’s, Bureau, Smoke & Dye packs etc.

It is essential to ensure that all lottery takings and transactions up to the day
before the audit are included in the asset verification. Such funds could be
introduced into the accounts and used to cover a cash shortfall.

The cash counted at the audit may not agree to the branch cash declaration, or
declarations should there be more than a single stock unit. This may be due to an error
when declaring the cash, or the cash may have been declared prior to the close of
business on the previous working day. The cash counted therefore is to be compared
also to the System held figure on the Office Snapshot (for individual stock branches).
For multiple stock branches, each stock unit snapshot, as well as the stock unit
declaration, should be compared to the cash found. For a Thursday am audit, following
the completion of a balance trading period, there is also the possibility that the cash can
be compared to the cash figure on the completed balance trading statement.

It may not be possible to immediately check all the cash on hand at the branch due to
the bulk being secured in a main safe, which may not be due to open until 9.30am or
later. A 40-minute internal cell may also be utilised. In these cases a decision will have
to be made whether or not to allow the branch to open before this cash has been
checked and verified. If in doubt do not allow the branch to open until all the cash on
hand has been counted and confirmed. Any errors must be investigated and identified
to the Subpostmaster/OIC who must be given the opportunity to check and agree any

11
POL00084055
POL00084055

discrepancies. Any significant discrepancies to be investigated by reference to, and
evaluation of, transaction / event logs obtained from the Horizon system.

Please note: - With the introduction of flexible planning, branches are now allowed to
declare cash on hand 20-30 minutes prior to closing. The time of the cash declaration
must therefore be taken into account when verifying cash found on hand.

Should the Subpostmaster/OIC present cash after the audit has commenced, and it had
previously been confirmed that all cash had been produced, it must be excluded from
the audit as the audit result is only based on the verification of the financial assets
presented as “on hand” at the outset of the audit. The cash must be accepted from the
Subpostmaster/OIC “without prejudice to investigations or the current branch trading
position”, a miscellaneous receipt issued, and included in Post Office Ltd funds, but not
the current branch trading position. Details of the amount should however be included
in the measures sheet of the P32 and reported in the branch audit report in section 3
Result of Financial Audit.

The situation must be reported to the Contracts Advisor, Fraud Team Manager and your
Line Manager, especially if the circumstances are suspicious and give cause for
concern. Keep a written record of all discussions and the precise words of any
admissions by the Subpostmaster/OIC. Mark this as a “True and accurate record of
events on........ ”, and ask the Subpostmaster/OIC to sign it, if refused endorse the
statement “refused to sign”.

2.12 Count and record all the value, volume and non-value stock on hand (standard
audit stock input forms must be used). The “working” stock must be checked first
leaving the bulk/main stock to be checked at a later time. This will allow the branch to
open as soon as possible (once sufficient “working” stock is available for use by the
branch staff) provided, of course, that the cash has been fully and accurately confirmed.

Once all the stock on hand has been counted and recorded, it must be
verified/compared to the Horizon office snapshot or the last completed branch trading
statement if a Thursday audit - following completion of branch trading period). Stock on
hand must be checked to ensure that it is current and proper to be held and this should
be confirmed with the NBSC, if in doubt. Obsolete stock must be discounted from the
audit, the subsequent shortage included in the current branch trading position and
explained in the audit report.

Any errors must be investigated and identified to the Subpostmaster/OIC, who must be
given the opportunity to check and agree any discrepancies.

Please note: - for branches that operate individual stock units, ensure that there are no
outstanding transfers. Obtaining the respective report from the Horizon system and
ensuring that the transfers reconcile does this.

2.13 Count and record all cheques on hand (standard audit cash input form to be used
to include service used) and verify to Horizon snapshot or the last completed branch-
trading statement (Thursday audit - following completion of balance trading period).
Ensure that cheques are examined for validity and that any “personal” cheques are not
on hand including those belonging to staff members.

If a personal cheque is found, and there is no evidence of a legitimate transaction to
which it relates, contact the Contract Advisor team, Fraud Team Manager and your Line
Manager immediately. This is likely to result in the suspension of the Subpostmaster,
so keep a written record of all discussions and the precise wording of any admissions

12
POL00084055
POL00084055

by the Subpostmaster. Mark this as a “True and accurate record of events
ON bss: senenezc ” and ask the Subpostmaster to sign it, if refused endorse the statement
“refused to sign”.

The personal cheque must be impounded, excluded from the audit result and a “without
prejudice” receipt issued.

2.14 Figures for vouchers already despatched can be obtained from the Horizon
snapshot but all vouchers on hand must be checked and reconciled to the Horizon
snapshot, or final office balance on a Thursday following the completion of a branch
trading period._When checking and listing vouchers, a daily breakdown of “cheques to
processing” and “remittances” must be recorded for later inclusion in the P32._.

All the vouchers on hand must be checked and verified irrespective of the day of the
audit. Printouts of transactions not yet cut-off, therefore still on hand, can be obtained
by accessing the report screen and selecting ‘summaries outstanding’. The details of
the printouts should tie up to vouchers on hand e.g. giro deposits and withdrawals etc.
Please note: - It is also important that all vouchers on hand are checked for validity,
early encashment and fraud.

2.15 Count and verify foreign currency holdings and confirm to the sterling equivalent
declared on the Horizon system. Confirm to foreign currency listings report obtained
from system. The sterling equivalent for the total of all the currencies held is given on
the snapshot. If all the currency holdings are correct, then the system held sterling
equivalent figure to be entered on the p32. The sterling held in the bureau stock should
be counted as part of the check of cash on hand. Any errors in foreign currency
holdings should be brought to the attention of the Subpostmaster/OIC, who must then
be given the opportunity to check and agree the discrepancies. The errors must also be
corrected in the Horizon bureau stock at the time of the audit. Totals from currencies
verified should be documented for later inclusion in the P32. Upon correcting the
errors, the revised sterling equivalent figure should be used in the P32.

2.16 Count and record lottery scratchcards and reconcile to the Horizon snapshot and
local records, if held. (Sales made in the morning before the audit may have to be
taken into account, as the retail side is usually open in advance of the Post Office®
counter). Scratchcards will normally be held on the retail counter and it may be
necessary to physically count the cards outside the counter area. In this case, care and
vigilance must be exercised at all times. Any cash held on the retail side relating to
sales should be included in the cash on hand verification. If lottery takings are not to
hand, have not been transferred over to the Post Office® counter or are banked into a
personal account, this must be reported to the Contract Advisor, Fraud Team Manager
and your Line Manager.

2.17 Obsolete scratchcards must be discounted from the current branch trading position
and the shortage explained in the audit report. The scratchcards on hand can be
verified by re ie lottery matrix held on the Team Library or by telephoning
the NBSC ¢ 'The Subpostmaster/OIC to be advised that any obsolete
scratchcards must be dropped from the cash account and the resultant shortage made
good. This should be actioned at the time of the audit and detailed in the audit report.

2.18 Obtain the following reports from the lottery terminal and the Subpostmaster/OIC

On line summaries
Instant summaries

Summary Inventory
Pack status reports

13
POL00084055
POL00084055

e = Activation receipts

Verify the lottery figures from the daily summaries to the Horizon snapshot and record,
using the standard audit voucher sheet, for later use when constructing the P32:

Weekly sales
Activations
Prizes paid
De-activations

eecee

2.19 Using the summary inventory and pack status reports, confirm and reconcile the
unactivated scratchcards. It should also be confirmed that the scratchcards on sale
have all been activated. The pack status reports identify the status of the cards held:

CONFIRM - Pack is unactivated
ACTIVE - Pack is activated

2.20 Count and verify the contents of the stamp vending machine (SVM).

Please note: - Cash in the SVM should be kept to the absolute minimum; any excess
cash should be removed. The branch should maintain a SVM quality of service record,
detailing instances when the machine has been out of service, for how long, where
there have been discrepancies, and the value of the discrepancy. It is important that
the machine remains operational at all times.

2.21 Obtain the bar code summary report from the Paystation terminal. Count all
monies accepted in respect of transactions carried out on the terminal to ensure that
they balance to the amount detailed on the report. It is important that the summary total
is entered into the Horizon system as soon as possible after the bar code is available
for scanning. If this is not done the agent will receive repeated reminders to do so.
Failure to comply with this requirement on a regular basis will cause the Paystation to
be suspended.

Please note: - The maximum amount of Post Office® cash that can be held on the retail
side is £250.00. The total of the bar-code summary and monies in respect of
transactions should be included in the P32.

2.22 Examine the system to determine whether there are any outstanding transaction
corrections (TCs) and if so, ask the Subpostmaster of his / her intentions to process the
TCs. audit admin support will provide. information all may also be
necessary to Agent Debt Team oni. fort. _n order to obtain
information on the current ‘debt account’ for the branch. This will include obtaining
information on any pending transaction corrections. This may also involve carrying out
some investigative work to prove the transaction correction is proper to be raised.
Details of any pending transaction corrections should be documented on working
papers and later included on the measures sheet within the P32.

Please note: - A charge transaction correction will be detailed as ‘INV” on the printout
whilst a credit transaction correction is detailed as ‘CRM’.

Contact: Former Agent Debt on: GRO postline {

2.23Should the Subpostmaster admit any fraudulent activity, he/she should be
immediately advised that the branch will be kept closed if still closed at the time, or
closed forthwith if previously allowed to open for business. The Contracts Advisor,
Fraud Team Manager and your Line Manager must be contacted as soon as possible.

14
POL00084055
POL00084055

As with other scenarios raised in this manual, a written record of the precise words of
the admission and any other discussions must be kept. Mark this as a “True and
accurate record of events on ................2...4+ ” and ask the Subpostmaster to sign it, if
refused endorse the statement “refused to sign”.

Please note: - In order to maintain objectivity and independence do not enter into any
discussion with the Subpostmaster regarding the admission, the nature of, or the
problems with the fraudulent activity. The audit role is simply to report the facts and not
to make judgements; any discussions with the Subpostmaster could prejudice later
investigations.

2.24 Where the audit is the second of the day and the branch is open for business then
it will not be possible to confirm cash to a branch declaration. All cash, stock and
vouchers must be counted and recorded (using the standard audit input forms) and
confirmed to the Horizon snapshot. It may be necessary to close the branch for a short
period in order to check the cash, stock and vouchers held at the counter. If this is
necessary then a special notice must be displayed advising customers that the branch
is going to be closed. The notice should give details of the approximate time of opening
and alternative branches.

The NBSC should be telephoned and advised that the branch is to be temporarily
closed (the NBSC should also be contacted when the branch re-opens). As previously
stated, it is important that the location of all cash, stock and vouchers is confirmed as
the branch may be open for business and these items held in a variety of places. The
need to produce all cash, stock and vouchers at the outset of the audit is still important
and this must be stressed to the Subpostmaster/OIC. Determine if any non-standard
transactions are performed at the branch (lottery, SVM, bureau, ATM and Paystation)
and remember to include any cash, stock and transactions in the audit.

2.25 Where a branch is currently part of the rural strategy pilot, it is a requirement for all
cash, stock and vouchers proper to the branch code to be verified. This may involve
travelling to a further site to verify these items. The main branch is referred to as a
Core branch, and the areas serviced by the Core known as ‘Outreach’ sites. A separate
stock unit at the branch will hold all financial assets and information proper to the
outreach branches; therefore it is important that a balance snapshot for the outreach
stock unit is obtained for reference when verifying financial assets to the branch.

SECTION 3 - GUIDELINES FOR COMPLETION OF THE AUDIT OF ACCOUNTS
(P32/P33)

The P32/P33 is an Excel spreadsheet, with interlinked sheets. Once fully
completed, the current trading position of a branch is automatically calculated
(subject to other checks) and provides MI Data for post audit use.

Only white cells are keyed to. Coloured cells are those with links, formulae etc. and are
protected to stop the formulae being deleted accidentally.

Several cells contain a red triangle in the top right hand corner. This indicates that
there is a guidance comment tagged to the cell, usually a specific instruction or a
reminder. To see the comment, click in the cell containing the triangle and then hover
the cursor over the cell and the message will appear.

Several of the spreadsheets are quite lengthy so there is a red bold stripe at certain
points of each page to indicate the end of the page.

15
POL00084055
POL00084055

At present the current P32/P33 can be used for completing the difference types of audit

Financial Assurance Audit ----P32/P33

Tier 2 -- Financial Irregularity Audit ----P32/P33
Rob/Bur Audit ----P32

Compliance Only Audit ----P33

For all of the above audit types the Main Menu page must be completed. In the case of
the top 4 prior to the audit taking place. When the date of audit is keyed in on Main
menu sheet it shows whether the correct version of the P32/P33 is being used. This is
important to ensure that stock prices, used to construct the balance, are correct and
current.

Once this page has been completed select your audit type, E.G. Financial Assurance
Audit and navigate your way around by selecting the various buttons.

The Tier 2 -- Financial Irregularity Audit must be used for ALL 200 types audits and if
any of the other type have a combined discrepancy which exceeds a £1000.00 or you
discover something that could lead to a suspension taking place.

3.1 Financial Assurance Audit

Sheets to be completed within Financial Assurance Audit section of the p32/p33

Main Menu (see above)

Financial Assurance Input Sheet (see below)
CAT Planning (see above)

Measures (see above)

Equipment (see above)

PAA (see above)

CAT Findings (see above)

Financial Assurance Input Sheet
All the tables required to produce a balance are contained within this icon.

The top table is similar to the BTS but the main difference is that the balance is made
back to the ‘Office Snapshot’ produced at the commencement of the audit. Not all items
of stock will be checked and there will be no check of Postage Stamps. Items not
checked will be deemed to be assured.

Items to be checked on audit
e All the cash including ATM, Lottery and Paystation cash
e All cheques on hand
e Euros/ Dollars and the next two highest value currencies (e.g. the largest sterling
values)
e PO Savings Stamps
e Instant Scratchcards

16
POL00084055
POL00084055

e 100 x 1% Self Adhesive
¢ 100 x 2"4 Self Adhesive
e 50 x1st Self Adhesive Large
e 50x 2™ self Adhesive Large
Motor Vehicle Licences and Travellers Cheques should be reconciled as now — the
tables are included in this sheet.

Cash remittances and bureau remittances should also be listed and cash remittances
will be verified with Admin Support as now. Only a total figure is required for each
section and cash remittances in and out should be ticked when verified by Admin
Support. A summary breakdown table is also included for the bureau in and out/ cash
in and out and for cheques processed.

Included is a table for suspense items. Items shown should be listed (Column K 65 to
86) and the amount which is authorised (Column L 65 to 85) should be entered in the
adjacent column. This will give a disallowed figure(Column M 65 to 86) which feeds into
the total balance figure.

Cheques processed should be listed as at present e.g. by day.
Completing the top section

Column B: Manual input of Outstanding Debt/ TC’s not processed and Net Discrepancy
from the snapshot. The branch details will feed from your main menu input.

Column D: To be input from the ‘Office Snapshot’

Column E: These are the amounts verified/ counted on audit ##

Column F: Indicates any differences between declared and verified

Column G: This is the assured amount (for ATM dispensed, foreign currency and
postage)

Column H: This will give the total difference in items checked (not including debt/ TC’s
not processed and Net discrepancy from the snapshot)

## Included in this sheet are input tables for cash/ cheques/ foreign currency and
volume stock — these will feed into column E. These are again as at present.

A full breakdown of cash denominations or stock volumes is not required — a total figure
is acceptable.

ATM dispensed cash will have a separate line, which feeds into the assured line of the
cash in the top input table and will feed into the cash total. It is listed on a separate line
to indicate that we have balanced the ATM but that this cash is not physically on hand.

To complete Column G for Postage (assured value) — enter the Postage Stamp total
from the ‘Office Snapshot’ which will be the same figure as Column D - this will show a
nil discrepancy in Column H.

To complete Column G for Foreign Exchange (assured value) —

Take the total sterling value from the currency total on the ‘Office Snapshot’ minus the
items to be verified i.e Euro/Dollar and the two other highest sterling values. This will
give an assured value.

Total bureau minus Euro/Dollar and 2 highest
sterling equiv = assured amount

Once the verified currency figure is entered, any discrepancy will be indicated in
Column H.

17
POL00084055
POL00084055

Outstanding Debt

If the total discrepancy is more than £1k, a full audit will need to be completed. It is
therefore important that any outstanding debt figures are known before the visit. It
would be pointless following the assured process if the branch already held more than
£1k of debt. Therefore the debt figures will be supplied before the audit date.

It is also vital that any large discrepancies found during the audit are reported to the
audit leader immediately as this may influence the decision to revert to a full audit.

Report

The report has been adapted slightly to indicate that this is an assured audit and that
only certain items were verified. Section 1 - Introduction now includes:

During the audit all cash, cheques, vouchers, Euros, Dollars and suspense
entries were verified and a check of a selection of stock items and other
currencies was performed.

The amount verified in Section 3 — Result of the Financial Audit will be the total value
from cells E15 and E23 i.e all items which were verified as on hand. The corresponding
amounts are simply plus or minus the differences indicated in Column H. For example if
we verified £1000 and there was a shortage of £50 the corresponding amount would be

£1050. For a £50 surplus it would be £950.

Financial assets to the value of £------------ were physically verified compared to
the corresponding amounts detailed on the Office Snapshot of £----------- . Any
stock items not verified, during the audit, were deemed to be assured.

Items required to complete the Financial Assurance Audit

P32/P33 e mail

Report e mail

Cash and Stock sheet email/hard copies
What to say on audit hard copies

It is important to inform the Subpostmaster/Manager that we are using this
approach. Stress the fact that we will be causing less disruption to the branch.
Also ensure that the audit is aware that it may become a full check if
discrepancies are found.

Most important of all, make sure that he/she is told that the next audit will not
necessarily be this type and will probably be a full audit.

3.2 Tier 2 - Financial Irreqularity Audit

To be completed for all 200 serials audit types and any audit that exceeds
£1000.00 or a financial irregularity is discovered e.g. borrowed cash.

18
POL00084055
POL00084055

Sheets to be completed within Financial Assurance Audit section of the p32/P33
e Main Menu (see above)

CAT Planning (see above)

Measures (see above)

Equipment (see above)

PAA (see above)

CAT Findings (see above)

Stock (see above)

Recs (see above)

Cash & Cheques (see below)

BTS (see below)

1p to £5 (see below)

Recs & Sales (see below)

Payments (see below)

Suspense (see below)

Foreign Currency (see below)

Cash and Cheques sheet

This sheet includes a table to record all cash totals by stock unit for up to 20 individual
stock units. The total value for each stock unit is then automatically added and feeds to
the total box. Any difference will be shown in cells D11 to D29

Details of all cheques on hand at the branch are keyed to the table in cells A39/55 to
AN39/55 separately for each stock unit, recording the service for which the cheque was
accepted and the amount. Totals of all cheques, on hand are automatically calculated
and fed to the BTS sheet H11

All cheques processed since the last Branch Trading period should be recorded in the
table in cells A/B66 to A/B100 (record each daily total). These are then checked post
audit by Admin Support to ensure all have been received and processed at the
processing centre.

Details of any inward and outward cash remittances require to be recorded. Values
verified at audit by Admin Support require to be recorded by breakdown of amount/date.
However, rems not verified must contain: pouch numbers, date & total. Use columns
DEF 66 TO 100 for Rems In and HIJ 66 to 100 Rems Out.

1p to £5

This sheet is to record each denomination of definitive stamps by stock unit, recording
stock unit details in cells C12, D12,E12) etc. (These are the only stock items that show
as a value on the Branch Trading statement, balance snapshot etc. The total amount
and value for each stamp is calculated in columns AQ and AR, along with the total value
for each stock unit on lineC58,D58, E58 etc.).

The miscellaneous section, at the bottom of the table, is for recording stamps for values
that are no longer issued as stock items, such as 37p stamps. Should there be any of
these on hand the value of the stamp in decimal format (i.e. 0.37) should be recorded in
cells B50 to B57. The total value then feeds directly to the BTS sheet to calculate the
current trading position.

Receipts and Sales

19
POL00084055
POL00084055

The value of all receipts and stock sales from the balance snapshot are recorded in this
table. Inward remittances are fed automatically from other sheets within the P32.

You need to record the balance B’Fwd figure in cell C57 from the Office Snapshot.

Payments

The value of all sales (payments) from the balance snapshot is recorded in this table.
Outward remittances and 1p to £5 postage remittances are fed automatically from other
sheets within the P32.

Suspense

The only items that should be posted to suspense by a Subpostmaster/OIC are
remittance shortages or surpluses, robbery/burglary losses; cash in pouches or
authorised suspense emergency payments.

However, any other suspense items should when entered onto the p32 suspense
account sheet, are totalled and feed automatically to the BTS sheet, to be included in
the overall trading position figure.

There is an additional table for recording any items that are in suspense due to
migration. This is a temporary table until all these items have been cleared and will
eventually be removed.

Foreign Currency

The sterling value of any foreign currency should be calculated manually and recorded
in the appropriate cell on the Foreign Currency sheet. This sheet records the value for
each unit of currency, to provide a clear audit trail. The top section includes the more
common currencies such as Euro and American Dollar and there are blank sections at
the bottom of the page for the more unusual currencies. The Horizon system held
sterling figure is taken if all the different currency holdings agree. If not, an adjustment
is made for sterling equivalent of any discrepancy. This table is for recording the totals
of each denomination of currency type held.

BTS Sheet

The following details are recorded from the previous branch trading statement to cells
C10 to C15) as follows:
e Last Branch Trading Statement date
Cash on hand
Other MOP (including cheques)
Sterling equivalent of bureau holdings
1p to £5 value postage figure
Cash awaiting collection (rem pouches already made up/cash in pouches)
Suspense items
Net Discrepancy As Per Office Snapshot
Net Cash Adjustment As Per Snapshot

eoceeeeee

Items above are then recorded from the Office Snapshot to cells F10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18,
21 & 22.

20
POL00084055
POL00084055

Column H (on hand at Audit) is fed automatically from other sheets within the P32
workbook, except for foreign currency, which needs to be keyed manually on the Cash
& Cheque sheet cell normally only one entry. The total from the office snapshot or same
plus or minus any discrepancy

Please note: - The cheques to EDS (or cheques to Belfast Cash Centre for NI branches
on the remittance sheet) must be entered to the P32 by day rather than a bulk figure.
The data input to these sheets will feed to the payments sheet and will identify the audit
result.

The current branch trading position will now be identified on the branch trading sheet
(BTS) within the audit of accounts (P32) and this should be confirmed to the expected
result taking into account the following factors:

e Have any forged notes / obsolete stock been discounted?

e Has the previous cash account discrepancy been rectified?

e Have errors been found in cash, stock and vouchers?

Please note: - This list is not exhaustive but will reflect the circumstances found at each
individual audit. However, there is a requirement that the Subpostmaster/OIC settles
the account upon completion of the branch trading statement. Therefore, if a
declaration has been made that cash has been added but findings are found to the
contrary, this should be seen as cash inflation and the relevant people notified.

3.3 Should the current branch trading position identify an unexpected large discrepancy,
further investigations must be made before advising the Subpostmaster/OIC.

e Ensure that all input sheets have been totalled correctly

e Check that all amounts on input sheets have been input to the respective
Audit of Accounts P32 spreadsheet

e Check that there are no omissions on the input sheets - compare to snapshot

Confirm that there have been no other input errors to the P32

e Examine the variance in stock levels from the previous branch trading
statement to identify unusual holdings. (Include the postage breakdown in this
check i.e. 1p to£5)

3.4 It is becoming increasingly apparent that, now that the ability to suppress
remittances has effectively been removed, cheques to EDS figures are being used to
conceal fraudulent activity. When performing an audit, it is extremely important that:

e Any large amounts of cheques claimed as remitted during the period since the
last declared branch-trading statement are examined against the levels of
receipts, figures for the period and, if necessary, verification against Horizon
reports.

e Any large value cheque discovered at the time of the audit is questioned and
compared to the transaction it was claimed to support

If there is any doubt, then contact your Line Manager at the time of the audit.
3.5 Once the current branch trading position has been confirmed, the Subpostmaster
should be informed and an explanation obtained if required. If no explanation is offered,

any discrepancy in excess of £1,000 must be reported to the Contract Advisor, Fraud
Team Manager and your Line Manager for area.

21
POL00084055
POL00084055

Please note: - The branch trading position could change in the event of pending
transaction corrections being issued or transaction corrections that later come to light.

3.6 Request that the Subpostmaster/OIC adjusts the discrepancy, or seek proposals for
its recovery in the event of a loss.

3.7 It is important that the measures and CATs test sheets are fully and accurately
completed following all audits, using the latest guidelines, with all boxes completed. It
is essential that the information recorded is accurate and in the correct format e.g.
words (correct spelling) or figures otherwise it will not feed through to the databases
utilised by the Admin support team.

The information taken from the P32/P33s is very important and considerable time
and effort is wasted when the measures sheet is not completed correctly.

SECTION 4— VERIFICATION OF REPORTED FIGURES (WHILST ON SITE)

4.1 It has become increasingly clear that some details previously verified after the audit
by a separate duty could in fact be verified on site at the time of the audit. This means
more timely verification and early detection of any fraudulent activity. The procedures
are as follows:

REMITTANCES

e Whilst on site, usually once the branch has opened for business, you should
receive a telephone call from the re it verification duty, Contact
your Admin Support, GRO! They will provide bulk
totals of all inward & outward remittances despatched to the cash centre
appropriate to audit. NB. If any rems cannot be verified, you may be required
to obtain pouch numbers, amounts & dates of remit

e Admin Support will make contacted at all audits, even where no remittances
have been received at, or despatched from the branch. This will confirm that
there have been no remittances and prevent suppression

e Admin Support will verify details against the SAPad’s system and contact the
lead Auditor, at the branch, to confirm results of the check

e If remittances are confirmed annotate the post audit activity sheet (PAA)
within the Audit of Accounts (P32) accordingly.

e Ifa discrepancy is reported then your line manager must be contacted
immediately with the details

Please note - Ensure that any cash remittances on site at the branch, prepared for
despatch, are opened and checked at the audit to confirm and verify the contents.
The remittances (pouches) must be reversed out of the System, opened and checked
then remitted and prepared for despatch again.

However, if an uplift by CVIT is imminent, then the amount(s) and relevant pouch
information is to be noted in the Currency in Pouches section of the p32 suspense
account sheet and also cell E21 of the PAA sheet, with the relevant duty informed by
telephone. The duty will later confirm receipt by the Cash Centre as part of the overall
remittance verification procedure.

SUSPENSE ACCOUNTS

22
POL00084055
POL00084055

site, contact the Cash Reconciliation Team on ~
} to determine whether cash in
pouches figures are proper to be held (This is only required if amount held,
but no pouches are on hand — the pouch or pouches having been incorrectly
despatched).

Whilst on site, contact the Branch Control Team on {~

e Inthe case of the above, if a discrepancy is reported then your line manager
must be contacted immediately with the details

SECTION 5 —- REPORTING IRREGULARITIES AND DISCREPANCIES

5.1 It may be necessary to contact Contract Advisor, Investigation Team Manager and
your Line Manager to report findings, errors, discrepancies or admissions. This should
be done at the earliest opportunity. This will allow discussions to take place and a
decision be made whilst the lead Auditor is still on site at the branch and will ensure that
the matter is dealt with quickly and efficiently. Contact should be made via mobile
phone, as this will ensure confidentiality (use Mobex number). The use of the
Subpostmaster’s telephone should be avoided.

5.2 The line manager must be contacted in the following circumstances, where:

e There is an unexplained discrepancy in excess of £500 (including outstanding

debt as well as trading position found during asset verification)

There are any irregular or suspicious circumstances

There is an irregular personal cheque on hand

Credit sales are operated

There is an admission of misuse of Post Office Ltd funds or fraudulent activity

The Subpostmaster refuses to allow access to the premises

Cash on hand has been inflated or an amount of cash is produced after the

audit has commenced

Lottery takings are not to hand but banked in personal account

e Transaction corrections have not been actioned to the expected timescales

e There are discrepancies found in on-site verifications (remittances, suspense
accounts etc.)

e The Subpostmaster has declared that the previous periods discrepancy has
been made good, however findings are to the contrary

e Ifthe lead Audit Officer has any other concerns or is unsure.

e The Subpostmaster cannot make good an audit shortage and is unable, or
unwilling, to put forward proposals

This list is not meant to be exhaustive as there will always be circumstances that arise
that won’t be covered by any list no matter how long. Regardless of the circumstances,
if there is any doubt or concerns, contact the Fraud Team officer for the area.

5.3 When contacting your Line Manger, the following information may be required for
onward cascade: (see also 5.6 — completion of Event Capture Form)

¢ Date of the incident

¢ Time of the incident

¢ The name of the branch

23
POL00084055
POL00084055

The address of the branch

Postcode

The branch code

Telephone number of the branch

Subpostmasters name

If run by a national multiple — which one

Audit leader

Name of Audit Officer revealing findings

The risk type (audit code)

Audit risk priority

Amount of the discrepancy (current branch trading position)
Amounts that make up the suspense account

How the discrepancy was discovered

Name of the Contacts Advisor dealing

Name of person dealing in the absence of the Contracts Advisor
Name of the Fraud Team Manager dealing

Name of person dealing in the absence of the Fraud Team Manager
Details of the decision taken by the Contracts Advisor (suspension / not
suspension)

Other action taken if not suspended

Location of the assets

Details of the interim (are they related?)

If a shortage, was it made good and how?

5.4 Once a call is received to report a discrepancy or irregularity from the Audit Officer
on site the Field Support Team Leader will take the following action:

e Where the amount is greater than £25K, your Line Manger will relay the relevant
details to Network Support Manager North.

5.5 Precautionary suspensions

e The responsibility for making the decision to suspend is with the Contracts
Advisors or their representative

e Ifthe Contracts Advisor is not on site, the responsibility to communicate the
decision to precautionary suspend is with the lead Auditor

e The lead auditor should discuss the way ahead with the Contracts Advisor i.e.
Closure of the branch, transfer etc. and deal with arranging transport (if required)
or the transfer to a new Subpostmaster

e There may be occasions when the Contracts Advisor is on site and can relay the
message to the Subpostmaster. This will be the exceptional and not expected.

e The Contracts Advisor may ask you to to either post or take to a nominated
branch, the keys, safe and alarm codes and user ID log on details.

5.6 The responsibility for completion of an “Event Capture Form’ is with the lead audit
Officer.

24
POL00084055
POL00084055

The ECF should be completed for all discrepancies over £1000 and within 48
hours of the audit. If these timescale cannot be met, should be informed so
alternative arrangements can be made for the completion of the ECF.

The file should be saved as follows:
ECF.BranchCode.Six digitdate.AnytownPO.TeamName. xls for example
ECF.123456.151206.Birmingham.West.xls.

The completed ECF should be e-mailed to Investigation Team Post Office Ltd
mailbox, Audit and Process Specialist Glyn Burrows, Risk Modeling Manager
John Jenkinson, Contracts Advisor and the Fraud Team leader.

In cases where the discrepancy exceeds £25K, Network Support Manager North
must also be copied in.

When completing the form, it is imperative that the following information is
recorded:

Date of the incident

Time of the incident

The name of the branch

The address of the branch

Postcode

The branch code

Telephone number of the branch

Subpostmasters name

If run by a national multiple — which one

Audit leader

Name of Audit Officer revealing findings

The risk type (audit code)

Audit risk priority

Amount of the discrepancy (current branch trading position)
Amounts that make up the suspense account

How the discrepancy was discovered

Name of the Contract Advisor dealing

Name of person dealing in the absence of the Contract Advisor
Name of the Fraud Team Manager dealing

Name of person dealing in the absence of the Fraud Team Manager
Details of the decision taken by the Contract Advisor (suspension / not
suspension)

Other action taken if not suspended

Location of the assets

Details of the interim (are they related?)

If a shortage, was it made good and how?

DO NOT APOLOGISE NOR ENTER INTO DISCUSSION AS TO WHY A SUSPENSION
HAS BEEN AFFECTED - REFER THE SUBPOSTMASTER TO THE CONTRACT
ADVISOR.

5.6 Should the Subpostmaster be suspended, there is a possibility that the branch will
remain closed and the assets defunded (please refer to the Closure chapter of the Audit
Process Manual for details about the defund of a branch). In this case, a special notice
to this effect should be displayed and NBSC should be contacted to advise them of the

25
POL00084055
POL00084055

situation. If the branch is to remain closed, the door and safe keys will need to be
secured once the Audit Officers have left the branch.

In all cases, the Contract Advisor (or a team member) should be requested to attend the
branch before the Audit Officers leave, to take responsibility for the alarms and keys. If
this is not possible, as a last resort, the alarms will be changed and set and the keys
taken away by the lead Auditor. This will, however, merely be a temporary measure and
the keys and alarm codes should be transferred to the Contracts Advisors at the earliest
opportunity. This arrangement should be discussed and organised prior to the lead
Auditor leaving the branch.

Appendix J should be used as a quick reference guide for dealing with discrepancies.

5.7 In cases involving suspension, the lead auditor should obtain up to six periods worth
of branch trading statements, and keep them with the other audit papers for retention at
the central archive in Chesterfield. This will assist the Legal Services team, should the
case go to court.

Ideally originals should be obtained, but copies (where such facilities exist) are
acceptable. Should there be no statements available, a reprint of the last completed
Statement may be obtained from the Horizon system.

If the Subpostmaster objects to the removal, it should be pointed out that the paperwork
is the property of Post Office Ltd, and if necessary a miscellaneous receipt may be
issued.

SECTION 6- PERFORMING A COMPLIANCE AUDIT

Internal control relates to the whole system of controls and co-ordinated measures
designed to safeguard the assets and to maintain accurate and reliable records. The
importance of internal control to the Audit Officer arises from the need to be certain that
information produced is soundly based and possibilities of deliberate or accidental
errors are reduced. Internal audit's primary function is therefore to appraise the
effectiveness of internal control by confirming compliance with documented Business
process and procedures.

6.1 The concept of compliance auditing is based on the assumption that the laid down
mandatory business procedures or regulatory controls are in operation. Compliance
audit tests (CATs) are designed to test that controls are operating as intended, by
checking evidence of adherence to the approved systems.

6.2 The Audit Officer's role in compliance auditing is to undertake sufficient testing to be
able to confirm, with reasonable assurance that controls that should be present in a
system are being deployed.
6.3 The scope of all standard audits (unless notified otherwise) is as follows: -
A financial audit
Critical compliance tests - Core compliance tests
Verification of ACC declarations (at Crown branches only)
Confirmation that actions from the previous audit report have been attended to
The Critical compliance tests are as follows: -

e Regulatory Requirements

26
POL00084055
POL00084055

Financial Controls

Information Security

Procedural Security (Top 10, 20 or 30 — Branch Details refers)
CAT on the month - as notified in Network Risk and Process update
Data Protection

Travel Products

Banking Products

Mails Integrity

Pricing in Proportion

Royal Mail Services

Homephone

6.4 Performing the test - CATs should be undertaken in accordance with the detailed
instructions provided for each question. Where a ‘No’ answer is given, the Audit Officer
should discuss the matter with the BM/Subpostmaster/OIC to establish whether or not
there are any extenuating circumstances contributing to non-compliance with the laid
down procedure.

6.5 The record and results of each test should be documented on the standard CAT
working paper. Details and results of each test performed should be recorded against
the appropriate question reference number under the conclusion. The test record
should identify the population from which the sample has been selected together with
the level and period of the sample.

6.6 The Audit Officer completing the working paper CAT should print and sign their
name in the box provided at the top of the paper. The lead Auditor must also sign the
CAT and note the comments and recommendations on his/her report.

6.7 Extended tests - In normal circumstances, CATs based on the suggested minimum
sampling levels will provide sufficient evidence upon which to base conclusions. The
level of sampling may be extended in certain circumstances and at the Audit Officer's
discretion, depending on the significance of findings and materiality of control gaps
identified. Sufficient evidence should always be obtained to enable appropriate action
to be taken to close the control gaps. If weaknesses are revealed in a small sample
(e.g. one or two week’s records) examine a further period to establish the extent of any
concern.

6.8 Where the test sample reveals no transactions have been completed e.g. Travel
Insurance or Foreign Exchange, either the sample period should be extended to cover a
sales period or the test should be simulated (i.e. ask the auditee how they would
account for it or what forms they would use etc.)

6.9 Audit observation - If a compliance test is not selected at the planning stage and a
gap in control is revealed while on audit (e.g. stock management - obsolete stock on
hand) the CAT sheet within the P33 should detail the areas examined and that is was
completed due to audit observation’. The planning sheet should not be amended.

6.10 Aborted tests - If tests are aborted (e.g. due to robbery/burglary, prolonged time on
the financial audit, suspension of agent or lack of time), column ‘H’ on the CAT sheet
within the Audit of Accounts (P32) should detail the reason for not performing the test.
The remainder of the planning should not be changed.

6.11 Conclusions - A summary and evaluation of findings for each area reviewed should
be included on the CAT under ‘conclusions’: -

27
POL00084055
POL00084055

e Detail control gaps and strengths found;
e Evaluate the significance on non compliance with key controls; outline
corrective action required

Compliance Test of the Month (COM)
The purpose of the COM is to ensure full coverage of all compliance tests in the
portfolio over each financial year. Selection is based on a number of criteria —
> The test has just been reviewed.
> Peak sales period for the product concerned i.e. rod licences in June ( the start
of the fishing season)
> Any product of the month sales incentives at branches
> Client requests

The programme is reviewed annually and each month a selection of compliance tests
from the portfolio which contain questions ranked as standard and important are
selected. The reason for this is that standard and important questions potentially may
never be asked on audit if they had not previously been identified as a control gap, and
therefore the Risk & Assurance team would not be in a position to provide full
assurance to customers/clients.

SECTION 7 —- CLOSE OF AUDIT MEETING

7.1 Once the financial audit and compliance tests have been completed, the audit
findings will need to be discussed with the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM. The following
guidelines should be followed:

e The closing meeting should already have been discussed and planned with
the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM as part of the opening meeting at the outset of the
audit

e The meeting should be conducted in private whenever possible as some of
the points for discussion may be sensitive

e The lead Auditor should be familiar with all the findings of each test
completed

e When talking through the findings it is important to discuss them in a
balanced way and be able to qualify exactly what is meant. The reason for
any actions should be made clear. The consequences and impact of not
complying should be communicated; however “because it is in the rules” is
not an acceptable explanation. It is useful to point out where the correct
procedure is documented and the importance of adherence to it

e The lead Auditor should look to influence the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM
whenever possible — including providing a copy of an action plan so that the
Subpostmaster/OIC/BM knows what to expect, in addition to selling the
benefits of conformance and the impacts of non-conformance

e All the Subpostmaster’s/OICs/BMs comments or requests should be
documented and incorporated into the management summary section of the
branch audit report

e Allow the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM time for questions

e Following the audit a customer satisfaction feedback form should be sent to
the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM at the branch — again try to influence the
Subpostmaster/OIC/BMto complete the form and outline the benefits to
him/her e.g. possible improvements to auditing etc.

SECTION 8 — AUDIT REPORTING FOR STANDARD AUDITS

28
POL00084055
POL00084055

8.1 Following an audit, the separate ‘stand alone’ audit report must be completed. To
note there are a number of audit report templates as follows: -

e Report A - Should be used for all routine audits of agency branches (Standard
Audit)

e Report B - Should be used for all routine audits of Crown branches (Standard
Audit)

e Report D - Should be used when a decision has been taken to suspend the
Subpostmaster from their role

e Report E — Extra Report

e Report F — Should be used for Compliance Only audits

e Report --- Compliance Team Audit Report Financial Assurance

8.2 Once the audit has been completed it is important that a clear, concise and
objective report of findings is written and communicated to all appropriate recipients.
The report template should be completed as follows:

e Open the latest audit report template and save in the same format as the relevant
P32/P33. Details should include the Branch code; date and branch name e.g.
023323.010105 Wakefield.xls it should also have the correct branch type details
added, e.g. 023323.010105.Wakefield

.

Enter the following details to the front sheet of the report:

e Towhom report is addressed & job title (drop down selection)
From whom report is being sent & job title (drop down selection)
Details of who the report is being copied (drop down selection)
Date of issue of the report (correct format being 01 January 2009)
Post Office name & Branch code
Date of visit (correct format being ‘day’ 01 January 2009)

Who the actions were agreed with
Name and contact details of your line manager

The control gaps found at the audit should be reported to the action plan at Appendix A
and B in the audit report. It is also important to detail, within the management summary
section, all the areas covered as part of the audit, and where non-conformance was
identified.

8.3 The management summary should be completed, in full paragraphs, detailing the
following:

e The result of the financial audit — current branch trading position and any known
differences (e.g. outstanding debt not yet collected, transaction corrections not
yet processed)

e The areas tested

e The areas where there is conformance e.g. controls deployed

e Asentence to indicate which gaps have not been actioned since the last visit,
and how they can be identified e.g. actions highlighted in bold within the action
plan are those that have been reported previously however no action taken.

e Any other info that is critical to the report e.g. failure to comply with regulatory
requirements (Anti-Money Laundering and Financial Services), poor security of
financial assets (including value of funds at risk etc), generic use of the Horizon
system etc.

e Any failings not covered by compliance testing, such as lottery transactions not
being accounted for daily.

29
POL00084055
POL00084055

e In addition it should be used to balance the report and identify any good working

e There is no requirement to mention previous gaps that have now been actioned

e The report reflects the discussions held with the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM at the
close of audit meeting and does not raise any new or unexpected
recommendation

When completed the report must be subject to a check of both the spelling and
punctuation.

8.4 The current branch trading position (full breakdown) and any other details relating to
the financial audit must be outlined in the section named ‘result of financial audit’.
Suspense account details and the situation regarding the audit discrepancy must also
be reported e.g. proposals to make good losses etc.

8.5 Section 4 should be completed detailing the branch name, Branch code and date
the audit was carried out.

8.6 The Action Plan should be completed ensuring that:

e The branch name and Branch code are entered

e Headings for areas tested input

e All relevant control gaps included in the action plan — this should be done by
highlighting the required control gap from within the excel actions template
and copying to the action plan

e Relevant alterations should be made to the standardised control gaps/actions

e Page breaks are inserted to align the actions within the table

Please note: - The actions should be listed on two appendices. Appendix A is to list
non-compliance. All other areas of non-conformance should be listed on Appendix B.

8.7 Upon completion save the report and e-mail with the P32 to P32file lotus notes
address.

8.8 Reports completed in respect of audits carried out at the National Multiple
companies should be e-mailed to the nominee and the multiples e-mail address:

multiple:

PLEASE NOTE; THE REPORT IS AN IMPORTANT OUTPUT OF AN AUDIT AND AS
SUCH IT IS VITALLY IMPORTANT THAT IT IS WELL WRITTEN, BALANCED AND
CLEARLY DOCUMENTS THE AUDIT FINDINGS.

8.9 The extra report template. (report E) should be used in cases where: -

e There is extra information, not detailed in the normal report that might be
useful to other parties e.g. Contracts Advisor, Investigation Team Manager
etc.

e The audit is a concern of the Contracts Advisor or is an Fraud team request

This report once completed should be detached and saved to the C drive and
subsequently emailed to the appropriate recipients — IT SHOULD NOT BE SENT TO
THE SUBPOSTMASTER.

30
POL00084055
POL00084055

Please note: - Whatever the audit type there should always be a completed report
included with the P32, even in cases where the Subpostmaster is suspended e.g. report
to the Subpostmaster detailing findings at the branch, and the additional report to the
Contracts Advisor and Investigation Team Manager.

It is good practice to remind the Admin Support staff not to send the Extra Report to
branch as part of the P32 email.

Timescales for reports
All audit reports (standard and extra reports) should be completed, at a minimum, within

five working days of the activity having taken place. However, every effort should be
made to produce an extra report at the earliest opportunity (before the five days) to
contract advisors. All extra reports must be sent by e-mail to the respective area office,
and copied to the Fraud Team Manager.

8.10 The audit report contains a compliance certificate statement. This is completed by
the Subpostmaster/OIC/BM and returned to Admin Support within 14 days. Upon
receipt, the details annotated on the certificate should be input to a database. Where
there are exceptions, these are escalated to the NCAM who contacts the branch direct
to discuss the report and point out the impact of non-conformance. A copy of the
exceptions should be sent to the Outlet Intervention Team.

Admin Support is responsible for chasing up any non-returns of compliance certificates.
In the event of no response after a reminder, the failure should be sent to the relevant
area office.

For Compliance Only

e Testing the report template F should be used

e Crown offices receive report via e mail and also have a acknowledgement doc.
attached - this must be sent back to POL Compliance mailbox within 3 weeks

e All other branches have hardcopy of report issued by admin support

e All reports are sent to POL Compliance e mail address for admin/MI collation etc

e Reports are also copied to BDMs, Outlet Intervention teams for reference and
follow up activity as required.

SECTION 9 -POST AUDIT ACTIVITIES
9.1 Following the audit, the lead Auditor should complete the following activities:

e Ensure the P32 is fully completed including all documents and sheets
(working papers) NB: planning sheet must be re-visited to record number of
gaps from the last audit still outstanding & any changes to the plan

e Ensure an audit report or reports are fully completed

e Ensure the measures and conformance sheets, in particular, are fully and
properly completed

e Complete the post audit activity sheet

e Save and password protect the P32 and the audit report in the correct format
e.g. 023323.010105 WakefieldAmber.xls

e Save and password protect a copy of the extra report to the C drive

e E-mail the P32 and the audit report in a zip file e.g. 023323.010105 Wakefield
to e-mail address: P32 File, requesting a return receipt, which must be
retained for sixty days. This provides confirmation that the P32 has been
received.

31
POL00084055
POL00084055

e Email a copy of the audit report to the outlet intervention office, FAO the
Contracts Advisors. For franchise and multiple branches a report should go
direct to the multiples email address.

e Email a copy of the extra report to the Contract Advisor, Fraud Team
Manager, your line manager In cases where a discrepancy exceeds £25k
copy in the Network Support Manager North. In cases of discrepancies
exceeding £5k and the amount has been posted to late account, then the
Agent Debt team are required to be copied in.

e Admin support will verify the cheques to PC values

APPENDIX A

Mr A Postmaster
Subpostmaster
1234 East Road
CHESTERFIELD
S49 1PF

31/10/2002

Dear Mr/Mrs Subpostmaster

32
POL00084055
POL00084055

BRANCH NAME BRANCH CODE

This letter is to confirm that this Post Office® branch is
to be audited today. The following Auditors will be
attending this Post Office® branch:

NAME OF AUDIT OFFICER
PASSCARD NUMBER www.postoffice.co.uk

All Audit Officers will have an official Post Office Ltd pass card with a photograph on. It
is imperative that these are thoroughly checked before admittance is allowed.

If you are still in any doubt about the authenticity of the Audit Officers, you can
telephone the relevant Network Support Field Manager responsible for the
it of this person/the
"? Kathleen Griffin
“Hi Gary Addert

Network Support Manager North
Post Office Ltd

delete all names that are not applicable along with this note when printing this
letter for handing to the subpostmaster/OIC/BM of the branch being audited.

APPENDIX B
CROWN BRANCHES

The resource levels for an audit of a directly managed branch are outlined in Chapter 2,
Audit Plan and Scheduling, within the Audit Process Manual. The comments in this
section assume a routine audit with the minimum level of staff attending and do not
include activities for special follow up visits prompted by the submission of the annual
certificate of compliance. This is contained in Chapter 8, Annual Certificate of
Compliance (ACC).

The purpose of routine audits of Crown branches is to provide assurance those assets,
declared in the branch trading statement, are in existence. It is not the purpose to
reconcile every item of cash or stock or to find corresponding discrepancies for the staff,
particularly if the audit is on a Thursday, following completion of the branch trading
statement. Given that it is not possible (or cost effective) to verify every penny at the
branch, without disrupting counter operations, the focus of the audit is on high value
items. With this in mind, the following approach to the selection of stocks to be audited
should be followed:

e Cash held in ATMs (see note 1)

33
POL00084055
POL00084055

Main cash (see note 2)

Any individual stock declaring more than £25k in cash (see note 3)

Any individual stock with abnormal levels of stock declared (see note 3)

Any stock held solely by the branch manager. For the integrity of the audit, it
is best to ask a back office duty to confirm whether or not the BM holds a
stock rather rely on the BM’s own declaration. (See note 3)

Note 1: ATMs that are accessible from with a public area are a priority for checking
while the branch is closed. If this is not possible, as a minimum, obtain the ATM
readings and assess the reasonableness of holdings — compared to previous holdings
and average ATM withdrawals. If there are any concerns, the lead Auditor will need to
make a judgment as to whether to keep the branch closed (while the ATM is counted) or
to return (at an undisclosed time at the end of the business day). The concerns may be
mitigated if the ATM is held and counted by two individuals or of it is rotated regularly.
Conversely, any concerns may be increased in the ATM has been held by one
individual for a length of time without rotation or supervisory check.

Note 2: The main cash is usually not accessible until 15 minutes after opening the
branch. This will allow for the audit to concentrate on counter stocks. However, the
main cash safe should be observed so that early access is not allowed.

Note 3: For the purposes of assurance, the financial audit of an individual stock should
check all cash (sterling and foreign currency), any unusable notes and cheques on
hand. In addition, the Audit Officer checking the stock should assess the
reasonableness of high value stock figures declared and, if concerned, should validate
those figures.

34
The main

The main

POL00084055
POL00084055

role of the lead Auditor at an audit of a directly managed branch is:

To interact with branch staff, especially the branch manager and particularly
at the beginning of the audit

To identify which stocks require checking at audit and assigning work to Audit
Officers, in priority order, so as to minimise any disruption to the general
public

To facilitate the audit by obtaining key information (e.g. cash declarations,
Horizon reports etc) for attending Audit Officers.

Observe any transactions between staff (especially main cash) that may affect
the audits of selected stocks and reconciling any transfers since the last
declared balance

To obtain the last declared annual certificate of compliance and test
compliance to the key controls

To verbally conclude the findings of the audit to the branch manager (or
nominated deputy) and ensure that the final written report is in line with the
verbal closing meeting

role of an Audit Officer at an audit of a directly managed branch is:

To audit stocks, assigned by the lead Auditor in line with notes 1-3 above
To advise stock holders what items have been checked (and what has not)
and the findings of these checks

Alert the lead Auditor to any concerns revealed (from audit findings or
observations)

Please note; the limits, as regards values and numbers of stocks, for checking
may change at the discretion of the lead audit officer.

Where there are cheques on hand at a Crown Office audit then there is a requirement

to record:

The value

Service accepted for

Name of the drawer — check these to the names of members of staff at the
branch

Any irregularities / discrepancies found at the audit should be reported to the lead
Auditor who in turn should take the necessary steps to report it to the Network Support
Manager North and Fraud Team Manager.

35
POL00084055
POL00084055

FRANCHISE AND MULTIPLE BRANCHES
APPENDIX C

The prep data will provide details of branches that are of either a franchise or multiple
types. The lead Auditor should obtain this information at the preparation stage along
with:

e The name of the multiple / franchisee

e The multiple/franchise company contact point e.g. nominee

e The name of the Contract Advisor

The financial audit process outlined in this chapter can be applied to multiple and
franchise branches with the following exceptions:

If highlighted in the FARM model the lead Auditor will need to determine if the
procedural security compliance paper needs to be undertaken if the branch is a
franchise. Some franchise branches are self-insured and in these cases the security
paper should not be completed. The self-insured franchise branches can be identified
from the branch details excel spreadsheet. Any major security weaknesses must be still
noted, however, and commented upon in the audit report.

On arrival at the branch, the lead Audit Officer should make the visit known to the store
manager and any local entry procedures must be adhered to. At the beginning of the
audit the lead Auditor must telephone the company contact e.g. nominee or post office
representative as soon as possible to advise that an audit is taking place and to invite
them to the closing meeting at the branch. The estimated time of the closing meeting
should be advised and, if the company contact is unable to attend, it must be confirmed
that they are happy for the audit findings to be discussed with the officer in charge on
site. In this situation, the nominee or post office representative must be contacted upon
completion of the audit to relay the findings.

Any irregularities, discrepancies, admissions etc. should be reported to the Network

Support Manager North. The Network Support Manager North must be sent a copy of
the respective audit report.

36
POL00084055
POL00084055

OPEN PLAN AND COMBINATION FORMATS APPENDIX D

Open plan branches are those without a physical screen barrier between the customer
and the person serving.

A Combination Store is the title given to retail branches that combine other retail
business with Post Office transactions using the same point of sale. The same person
will deal with private and Post Office transactions, but funds and accounts will be
separated.

The financial audit outlined in this chapter can be applied to open plan and combination
branches, but special care must be taken because of the different security
arrangements.

To minimise security risk to staff and funds, the following principle applies:
e Under no circumstances should bulk cash be counted in positions which are
exposed to the public

e All cash on hand should be counted in a secure back office area (if available)
or prior to the branch opening for business to avoid the problem.

37
POL00084055
POL00084055

ATMs APPENDIX E

There are 5 different ATM types on site at branches in the network and this will be
identified in the prep data for the branch audited

The different types of machines in the network are:

e PO maintained — this machine holds between £50k — £250k and is funded by
a remittance received at the branch. The transactions are reported through
the branch trading statement

e Fully Serviced — this machine type is totally maintained by Securicor

e Self-fill: Retail cash — this machine is funded from private cash and under no
circumstances must Post Office funds be utilised. This is considered misuse
of funds and should be reported to the Network Compliance Audit Manager

¢ Self-fill: PO cash — this machines hold £1k - £3k and are funded from PO
funds

e Self —fill surcharge — this machine holds a maximum of £2k, funded by PO
funds. Funds must be only PO, i.e. NOT £1000 retail, £1000 PO. NB: All
funds must be removed and secured in approved safe overnight.

There are consequently only 3 machine types that would need to be verified as part of
the audit process. Although it is not possible to open any of the ATMs whilst the branch
is open for business (if access is not via the secure area), consideration should be
given to checking the contents of the ATMs before the branch is allowed to open. If the
branch (or the retail side) is already open for business when the audit commences then
they should be closed for a short period whilst the ATM contents are checked.

If, however, it is not possible to perform a physical check of the ATM during the audit
then sufficient reports should be obtained from the ATM to provide assurance that funds
are on hand within the ATM. This should be subsequently fully documented in the audit
report, and reported to the Network Support Manager North at the time of the audit.

The obtaining of ATM reports should not be considered a replacement for physically
checking the actual contents of the machine. It should be used as a temporary measure
to carry on with the audit until such time (during a quieter period of the day as
mentioned above) when the branch can be closed for a short period to perform the
physical verification.

In extreme circumstances when the ATM is unable to be accessed, 4 weeks entries for
ATM withdrawals should be checked to ascertain whether or not stated holdings are
reasonable. All instances whereby the ATM cannot be accessed must be reported to
the Network Support Manager North and the Contracts Advisors.

38
POL00084055
POL00084055

SMOKE AND DYE PACKS

APPENDIX F
There are a large number of branches that are supplied with smoke and dye
packs as a security item. £20 notes surround the packs and these notes
must be included in the branch cash declaration and must be counted as
part of the financial audit.

The following guidelines apply:
£20 notes surrounding ECA Dyepacks

Two types of ECA Dyepacks found at Post Offices:
The ECA 16E/1 Dyepack (maxi-pack):

ihe 2 genuine £20 notes stuck to both sides of the
ECA 16E/1 Dyepack (£80 in total)

208i ‘20

The ECA 16E/1 Dyepack is housed within a Bank of England dummy bundle
with 2 genuine £20 notes stuck either side — a total of 4 £20 notes (£80).
ECA 16E/1 Dyepacks and surrounding £20 notes are often contained within
a transparent PO Giro note-bag.

The ECA Smokenote™ (thin-pack):

Smokenote ‘Pocket’ showing position of ‘invisible’ tape

Be ee

[ea ELA

Smokenote™ is housed between 2 stuck £20 notes with a further 8 or

110 £20 notes placed around the Smokenote™, with one folded over the
rt tic-_-band.

ECA Code ti

(£200 or £240 in total)

The ECA Smokenote™ is contained within its own package. The
Smokenote™ package is concealed between 2 stuck £20 notes. A further 8
loose £20 notes are placed around the pack, one folded over the top and
held together with an elastic band. (£200 in total) ECA Smokenotes™ and
surrounding £20 notes are often contained within a transparent PO Giro note-
bag.

39
POL00084055
POL00084055

Smoke and dye packs are surrounded by real £20 notes and if a number of
packs are on hand at a branch this could amount to a considerable value. It
is therefore important that the smoke and dye packs are opened and verified
at the audit to confirm that:

e The surrounding £20 notes are real

e The surrounding £20 notes are all on hand and are accurately

declared

The branch should have a record (receipt) for the smoke and dye notes.
The record will detail the full value and the serial numbers of all notes
within the pack.

40
POL00084055
POL00084055

ACCESS TO THE HORIZON SYSTEM
APPENDIX G

It will be necessary as part of an audit to gain access to the Horizon system at the
branch being audited. There will also be times when different levels of access will be
required and the following should be adopted:

Standard Audits

Audit Officers can be added to the system as a user in order to print the necessary
reports or the reports can be requested from, and produced by, the Subpostmaster.
Where the Subpostmaster supplies the reports, an Audit Officer should remain in
attendance whilst the reports are produced. If the audit subsequently identifies a
financial irregularity a ZAUD99 one-shot password (OSP) should be obtained for further
use of the system. Any extra users can then be added to the system, if required, from
the ZAUD99 user ID.

Audits at the request of the Investigation Team

It is important at these audit types that we do not jeopardise future court cases or
prosecutions by ensuring we have followed proper access procedures to the Horizon
system. A ZAUD99 (OSP) should therefore be obtained for access to the system and
this to be obtained on site in the secure area. Once logged on as ZAUD99 user it can
then be used to create other users on the system in order to later assist with the
production of transaction/event logs.

If the audit is a contract and service concern or investigation request then the ZAUD99
level of access will be required. The NBSC must be contacted as soon as possible after
the start the audit to commence the process for obtaining this type of access. As
previously stated, do not attempt to log on to or gain access to the Horizon system until
this one-shot password has been obtained. Any delays or problems in obtaining a one-
shot password must be reported to the Network Support Manager North following the
audit.

Please note: - If users have been added to the system during the course of an audit

remember to delete them from the system at the conclusion of the audit before leaving
the branch.

4
POL00084055
POL00084055

licrosoft Excel - Paths for printouts ¥3.xls
IB) Ele Edt view Insert Format Tools Data Window Help
JOSE SQ) 4 MEAS O-~-IBEz Hm Ot) MB 50%

I Postofficesans 4

T ‘oe I oy G Ter o TaT oO T3T « TeT rt

-—- ‘Staged Stage2 ‘Stage 3 Stage4 ‘Stage ‘Stage 6 py
bet [Beainop [> [F 8 Office baloncing Ib [FI Office cmapahot Lr lFa Prin ]
[-$[ a] view Stock Uns [Beairap [Lo [Ft Administration [> [Fi Stock Un Lo Fa View Stock Une Lo [cw tat only ]
[
[a I eres cxrnytttngs rere [psswor [>]ranerons _[ »[Frcomer ony [p[riereniancwrney [> [rare ]
[es-[ Tl Owtstanding sommories [Demap Lb [Fa Stock botoncing Lb [FS Summaries [Lb [Print sommarics For aicted I [Fa Print ]
[ee [8] Ozer sammaey [Deanap [Lv [F2 Repor: Lo Trt erentog Lo [Fie ser omemany Le] Farme 1
Enel peach sccomnh report [Becitop [> [F2 Reports LP [Fé Office weekly TL? [Fi Suspenze sccount Lo [Ferrin ]

es

a [e]rvonsence I Pramas [rao

ti] Remitence [Decop [> [Fe Repone [Lo [F2 office day LP [Fa Roms (aay) [ora Pree ]
[ 3s: [2] Remieance Owe [Beaitop [> [Fe Repons [LP [Fe orf diye LPF Roms ont [aaiyy LP [Fa Pine 1
Lae I
F313] Reversal reports [Dscop [b [Fe Repone [oS treessctiontog Le [Fiimede [eR = repent for BV LOTFI continwe

i

reteset pnitngace) —[owmep I Hennes [>] rape OE To fessuasaran []ramasspcis
se] bnteceTredng Semen Reps reqered) _[Dwowop I? [Fe Reyer I >] epee [> riers nen [° [one peice [> [ro conte
Decktop I + IF2 Reporte > I rr event Log > Tt Alt events » I r2 Balancing 5 ISectueocneed
“[Bo[ Stock sajuctments [Bsaop Ib [F2 Repons Lo [Fit meds tmenta -] I > [FI continue a

[4I> bi \Sheet1 { Sheet2 { Sheet3 / 4 >
Ready — [ Capsr eel ee

at III AS ES II Gworkspa...I }s.Aaudto...I ayAiecesse... oe ee SCSOPSX 15

APPENDIX J — Dealing with discrepancies revealed at audit (Note: ECF to be completed for discrepancies over £1000 only)

Discrepancy < £500.

YE

Are there any financial
irregularities or
suspicious

circumstances?
NO

Discrepancy > £500.

i

Is the discrepancy due to an

ee authorised amount in the suspense
'

account?

Yes

Audit Officer to report findings to the
Contracts Advisors, Investigation Team
Manager and line manager.

For National Multiple branches the Audit

/ Officer should contact the Network

rare

2)

Compirance Audit vianager tobe notified
all losses in

cess of £5k.

POL00084055

POL00084055

Misuse of funds admitted.

Seek proposals to make
good audit discrepancy.

(Contracts Advisors
makes a decision
to close the
branch.

Document findings and
proposals in the audit
report. E-Mail the audit
report FAO the
Contracts Advisors via
the Outlet Intervention

Audit Officer
prepares final
account

Team.

43

Contracts Advisors
makes a decision not
to suspend and the
lamount exceeds £5K

NoI

Audit Officer to
contact Network
Compliance Audit

Manager

Yes

the decision endorsed.
£5K - £10K Buddy CSA
£10K - £25K National
Contracts Mgr
>£25K Head of Business

Contracts Advisors to have

Network
Compliance Audit
Manager to ensure
escalation process
has been followed.

Development
APPENDIX K

C:\Documents and
Settings\glyn. burrow

APPENDIX L

Auditing Without
Access to Horizon. zip

44

POL00084055
POL00084055
