POLOO096667
POL00096667

Message

From: Alice Perkins } G RO

on behalf of Alice Perkins {

Sent: 19/06/2012 2.
To: Paula Vennells
Subject: Re: Fwd: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Yes this looks great - he is a bit of a quiet star isn't he?
Just want to be sure that he feeis happy with our choice of 2nd Sight - am assuming Alwen has run that past him and will
pick that up with her in the morning.

From: Paula Vennells [mailt
Sent: Tuesday, June 19, 2012 10:56 PM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Fwd: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Alice, i thought you'd like to see this - a remarkable note from James to Shoosmiths. Very balanced and helpful.

I won't reply to him as I think it needs to be left low key between us, as he is suggesting to Shoosmiths. (And it is being
handled well between his and our staff.) We can thank him in person next time we meet.

Paula

Sent from my iPhone
Begin forwarded message:
From: Alana Renner < GRO >

Date: 19 June 2012
To: Susan Crichton ¢

3, Alwen Lyons <¢ GRO

Subject: FW: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

All, fyi, a constructive note from James to Shoosmiths below. We have not been approached by the
Times yet, our on call press officer has our statement and instructions to come to me or Ronan if
contacted, I will let you know if we are. Have a nice evening. Alana

From: WALKER, Janet [mailt«
Sent: 19 June 2012 17:41
To: Alana Renner

Subject: Message from James Arbuthnot to Tadge Channer at Shoosmiths - Post Office / Horizon

Alana,
Here is what James has just sent to Mr Channer. Shall I leave you to share this with your people?
Kind regards

Janet

Janet Walker
Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

POL-0096250
POLOO096667
POL00096667

House of Commons
London SW1A OAA

Dear Tadge,

Thank you for your patience and understanding in not being invited to the meeting on 18 June, between
MPs and Post Office Limited management. I felt that it was important to discuss the
entire SubPostmasters and Horizon matter between these parties first before we brought in other groups,
largely because I believe we have found a very positive way to resolve this problem.

As you know, prior to yesterday’s meeting, I met privately with the Chairman of Post Office Ltd and
members of her staff. On each occasion, the meeting was cordial and productive. From these meetings,
we have come up with a plan for the Post Office to appoint an independent forensic accountant (to

be chosen in consultation with me) who will examine each case individually in order to establish exactly
what has happened. The individual SubPostmaster / mistress concerned will be given the opportunity to
be involved, as will his or her MP. Interviews will be conducted, data investigated, and in this way it is
hoped that an explanation can be arrived at that will put to rest any question over what exactly has
occurred.

I must put to you here that all this is extremely sensitive. This you know, but the Post Office has told me
and the other MPs who are interested in this matter that in every situation where an individual has been
prosecuted for alleged fraud or theft involving the Horizon system, the courts have found in favour of the
Post Office. The question was asked repeatedly of the Post Office staff yesterday whether there had been
any case upheld where the discrepancy reported or found had been found to be the fault of the system.
We were assured this was not the case.

The MPs at the meeting were happy with the solution offered. I believe it is the best possible way to
proceed, and am satisfied with what detail I have seen thus far. I have sent a press release to this effect
to The Times.

Tam not sure how you might handle things from your end. Of course you will have a different take on
this, but I would urge some caution. If — and I am not entirely credulous — the Post Office is correct, and
individuals may well find themselves at fault while believing vehemently that they are not, trumpeting the
proposed solution too early and too loudly may well result in serious embarrassment, to say the least, of
those involved. The problem is that, of course, everyone is innocent until proven guilty, but IF it turns out
that one of the most trusted individuals in a given community — which SubPostmasters and mistresses
invariably are — is not innocent, then a higher price will be paid by that individual than if things were
done rather more discretely.

You may wish to discuss this. It is a terrible conundrum, and I myself am not at all certain how to handle
things. Until I am, I am being rather less triumphant publicly about this than perhaps I ought to be, but I
am cautious by nature. And I am happy to talk this through.

Tam grateful to you for being so very helpful in this matter, and hope you will understand my attitude.

Yours ever

James

POL-0096250
POLOO096667
POL00096667

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW1A GAA

: jamesarbuthnot.com

peeeeeee eget eeeeeeesetenteeetentenereteeeterteretecteceereeeceersertard

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540

etree teeter err ret regret reeretrtetet errr tere ter terete rer teTy

Click here to report this email as spam.

This message has been scanned for malware by Websense. www.websense.com

POL-0096250
