Memo

17 June 2011

Maureen Moors
National Security Team
Post Office Ltd

cc Graham Brander

POST OFFICE LTD -v- LYNETTE JANE HUTCHINGS

CASE POLTD/1112/0007

POL00046626
POL00046626

Royal Mail

Legal Services

3 Floor

6a Eccleston Street
LONDON

SWIW 9LT

Tei GRO
Postline

www.royalmail.com

Having read the papers I note the following disclosure to the Defence Solicitors in the

interview under caution on tape.

The Defence Solicitors then read out a pre-prepared

statement which was followed by no comments to all questions put to the Defendant.
Bearing this in mind and the contents of the pre-prepared statement it is very likely that the
above named Defendant may contest the case. It appears from the contents that she may
bring into question her claim that the Horizon system was not working properly and refers to

some of the difficulties the Defendant encountered with the system.

I am therefore of the view that it would be more prudent for the Officer to complete his
enquiries and further investigations and produce the evidence by means of witness

statements and exhibits at this stage.

I list below some of the statements the Officer should obtain:

1 Copy statement giving evidence of access of the sub postmaster’s duties and period of
service.
2 The actual day the Rowland Castle SPOB migrated to the Horizon online account and

also confirming that the accounts prior to that were in good and balanced order.

3 The Officer should also deal with the computer software SAPADS and explain the
inflated amounts of schedules that he has prepared explaining the inflated amounts.
This should also include the cash declaration slips, the Horizon system on event log
books balancing which showed all cash declarations made over a period of time. The
Officer should also provide an analysis of the trading periods showing how the deficits

267038M01-Moors-Hutchings
© Royal Mail 2002 ~ Page 1 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Roya! Mail Group Limited. Registered number 4138203
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 100 Victoria Embankment, LONDON, EC4Y OHO
POL00046626
POL00046626

by

Memo

Cont...

in the accounts in the branch had been covered up and also how the audit was
requested after the office was holding onto excess cash and a full explanation of the
due paid schedule which has been prepared by the Officer headed high increases in
£50 notes and the explanation thereof.

4 Astatement from auditors dealing with the findings of the audit.

5 The Officer should find evidence rebutting the allegations and criticisms made in the
pre-prepared statement which was read out by the Defendant's Solicitor in the
Defendant's interview under caution. Evidence is needed to rebut these.

6 Statements dealing with the integrity of the Horizon and call logs to the Horizon
support helpdesk which should also go into some depth explaining the workings of the
system.

With the above in mind, I would be grateful if the above statements could be obtained and
sent to me so that I can draft the final advice and advise on charges.

CRM/267038/JSX/dmt

© Royal Mail 2002 - Page 2 of 2

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mall Group plc. Registered number 4138203,
Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 3HQ
