@

Financial Evaluation Sheet (FES) to be emailed to Financial Investigation Unit within 72 hours of

interview,

‘Case Reference:

Branch Office / Branch Code:
"Name of Persons) Interviewed
Date Interviewed:

BRIEF Summary of case:

Recovery details to date and ongoing:

What has the suspect said (or been asked) about the

disposal of the loss, e.g. if it was allegedly used to support a

retail business, provide full details - i.e. when did the
suspect start taking the cash, why was it necessary to take

Post Office cash, which bills were paid with Post Office

cash, how was Post Office cash actually used or was it paid

into a bank account(s), if so which account(s) and who uses

these account(s):

Who owns the Post Office premises and what is the full

address:

Does the suspect(s) have any links to any other Post

Offices (if so provide details):

What is the suspect(s) home address and who owns this

property, is it owned jointly, if so who with?

POLTD/1011/0186
163 306
Khayyam ISHAQ

07 April 2011

Audit on 08 February 2011 revealed a shortage in the
stock of £21,168.64, The amount of stamps on hand

had been overstated

Suspect stated that the business (owned by both him
and his brother) was up for sale and they will instruct
their solicitor to repay Post Office Ltd

Suspect was asked to obtain a letter of
undertaking to this effect.

Suspected denied theft or false accounting. Stated he

did not know how the discrepancy occurred

Owned by suspect and brother. Birkenshaw Post
Office 712 Bradford Road Birkenshaw Bradford BD11
2AE.

Suspect stated he has no other links.

Suspect lives with his father at {_

Mortgage details: (who is the lender, what is the outstanding Stated he has a mortgage on the Post Office- refused

balance):

Does the suspect(s) own or have interest in any other
properties, if so provide details and show how this info was

obtained:

Detail any vehicles owned by the suspect(s), (how do you

know this?), are there any other vehicles connected to the

‘case (provide full details, Make, Model, Registration number,

Colour, Mileage if known):

ls the car leased ? if so provide details.

Suspect stated that he has no other interest in any

to say who with but the outstanding balance was

approximately £109,000.

property.

Suspect stated that he had a Vauxhall Cors.

POL00056476
POL00056476
@

Financial Evaluation Sheet (FES) to be emailed to Financial Investigation Unit within 72 hours of

interview,

List all Bank Accounts connected to this enquiry (Personal & Refused to give any details apart from that he had a

Business). Provide account numbers and sort codes and

also a brief summary as to who operates these accounts:

Has a GS045 been obtained from the suspects for the

above Bank Accounts. If not, why?:

Detail all other assets of value identified during interview or

seen during searches:

Delail the full name, date of birth, occupation and income
(where applicable) of the suspect(s) partner & list the ages

of the suspects children:

Intelligence Checks - Confirm dates they were submitted

(please forward all results to FIU asap):

Do you believe that the suspect may dispose of the assets,

identified, if so explain why you believe this:

Any other comments:

Regards,
Steve Bradshaw

Security Manager

business account with Lloyds TSB.

Forms were refused by both the suspect and solicitor.
Search refused on the advice of his solicitor.

Suspect refused to give any details.

GS207 (Land Registry) to the FIU submitted on the ~

To be submitted

GS208 (Equifax, vehicle, PNC) to Intelligence
‘Transactions (RMUK) submitted on the - To be
submitted

GS210 (Inland Revenue) e-mailed to Intelligence
‘Transactions (RMUK) submitted on the = to be
submitted

No assets identified

POL00056476
POL00056476
