POL00179438
POL00179438

Sent: Mon 27/02/2012 11:35:30 AM (UTC)

To: Mike Granville,

Ce:

Subject: FW: Subpostmasters and the Post Office
Mike / Sue,

Alice is scheduled to see the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP for North East Hampshire on 13"
March, Alwen will be accompanying Alice on this visit.

Can I please have a brief prepared for Alice before this meeting.

Thanks,

to Alice Perkins

“Chairman's Office

Post Office Ltd

1st Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V SHQ

From: Alice Perkins §,
Sent: 24 February 20
To: Paula Vennells; Susan Crichton;
Subject: Fw: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: Friday, February 24, 2012 10:37 AM

To: Alice Perkins

Subject: RE: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear Alice,

How very kind. Thank you. May I ask you to come to me please? I shall ask my office to be in touch to
arrange this.

I am grateful to you.
POL00179438
POL00179438

Yours ever,
James

From: Alice Perkins
Sent: 23 February 2012 18:49

To: ARBUTHNOT, James

Subject: Re: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear James,

Thanks for your email below.

Of course, I would be happy to talk to you about this. I could come to you if you like or
alternatively, you could come to our Head Office and see some of our new kit in our Model
Office as well as talking about this.

What would you prefer? And what's your diary like?

Yours ever

Alice

From: ARBUTHNOT, James !
Sent: Thursday, February 23, 2012 09:57 AM
To: Alice Perkins

Subject: Subpostmasters and the Post Office

Dear Alice,

You may remember that when we last met at, I think, Ditchley Park I mentioned the issue
of the Horizon computer system in use in Sub Post Offices throughout the country, and said
Thad a real concern about the way some of the sub-Post Masters in and outside my
constituency had been treated. I have spoken to Orna Ni Chionna as well about this, and
she may mention it to you.

May I please come and see you about it? I know it is the position of the Post Office
(supported by the National Federation of Sub Post Masters, though not by the
Communications Workers Union) that there is nothing wrong with Horizon. I am deeply
sceptical about this, and hope I can persuade you to look afresh at the matter, rather than
accepting that there should be a closing of ranks round the computer.

T look forward to hearing from you.
Yours ever,

James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons
London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

POL00179438
POL00179438

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender
and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail
has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by
this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender
and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail
has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by
this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it
from your system. Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses,
but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail.

UK Parliament Disclaimer:

This e-mail is confidential to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your system.
Any unauthorised use, disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any
damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-mail
