POL00142534
POL00142534

From: Dave Panaecty.

Sent: Tue 22/11/2005 6:06:48 PM (UTC)

To: cheryl.woodward¢_

Ce:

Subject: Riby Square Post Office (FAD 202/311)
Attachment: C.htm

Attachment: PLEADING_1258483.DOC

Dear Cheryl,

Please find attached the Particulars of Claim for the case against the
subpostmistress Gillian Blakey and her husband/assistant David Blakey.
The Particulars of Claim were prepared by Counsel, Ben Lynch of Devereux
Chambers.

I would be grateful if you could carefully review the Particulars of
Claim. If you are satisfied that the matters stated are correct please,
either you or, if you feel it more appropriate, your manager, sign the
Statement of Truth on page 8 of the Particulars of Claim. Please note
that whoever signing the Statement of Truth is certifying that the facts
stated in the Particulars of Claim are correct and must honestly believe
the facts stated are true.

The facts of the case were ascertained from the documents prepared by
the investigators in the POID file, in particular, the witness
statements produced in anticipation of the criminal trial, Paul
Whitaker's report and his interview of David Blakey. I am not sure if
you have a copy of the POID but I would be happy to send you the
relevant documentation if you feel you need them sign the Particulars of
Claim.

If you have any queries, please give me a call. I look forward to
hearing from you soon.

Kind Regards

Dave Panaech
Solicitor
for and_on behalf of Bond Pearce LLP
DDI: :

Main office phone

www.bondpearce.com <http://www.bondpearce.com/>

The information in this e-mail and any attachments are confidential and may be legally
privileged and protected by law. The intended recipient only is authorised to access this
e-mail and any attachments. If you are not the intended recipient, please notify the
sender as soon as possible and delete any copies. Unauthorised use, dissemination
distribution, publication or copying of this communication is prohibited.

Any files attached to this e-mail will have been checked by us with virus detection
software before transmission. You should carry out your own virus checks before opening
any attachment. Bond Pearce LLP accepts no liability for any loss or damage which may be
caused by software viruses.
POL00142534
POL00142534

Bond Pearce LLP is a Limited Liability Partnership registered in England and Wales number
0¢311430.

Registered Office: Bristol Bridge House, 138-141 Redcliff Street, Bristol, BS1 6BJ.

A list of Members is available from our registered office. Any reference to a Partner in
relation to Bond Pearce LLP means a Member of Bond Pearce LLP. Bond Pearce LLP is
regulated by the Law Society.
