One to One Meeting Record

POL00127128
POL00127128

Name:

Christopher G Knight

Line Manager:

Simon Hutchinson

Date of meeting:

12/09/2013 (Stockport 13:40 — 14:20)

One to One period covered: I August / Sept

Celebrate key activities/Understand priorities/Imagine what you need to deliver activities

.

Priorities this month — Statement from Tracy Stephenson — Ravenshead — DONE

Progress case papers swiftly.

How you demonstrate our Directorate Behaviours — Care, Challenge, Commit

¢ Challenging -

© Care — 2" visit to elderly customers who had made complaints about Pmr who were using a
branch. Engaged with Head of Contracts (North) with suggested way forward which was

agreed.
© Commit -

Progress against objectives

Next milestone

On target

Areas for development/Support
required/Time management

Activity Plan

Progress

Delivering Courtroom Confidence
with Mark Dennett

02/09/2013 — Cardiff FSAs —
DONE

Delivering Courtroom Confidence
with Mark Dennett

14/10/2013 to FSA Team
Newcastle

121 *Christopher G Knight * *12/08/13*

POL00127128
POL00127128

Action Points and Line Managers comments

Recognition -

Case Files —

Croxton Kerrial — Police Liaison — Trial due on 9" Sept — attended on day but adjourned until w/c
10/02/14

Heeley — email from CLT advising NFA

South Lynn — Prepaid CCard info received — data being analysed after conversion to Excel (every
entry had to be verified after conversion — statements taken from Ex-pmr and his mother which
complimented new data evidence.

Montrose Ave — CLT advice received via email (prosecution) — awaiting papers to be returned
Gressenhall — awaiting Prosecution Authority

Rillington - awaiting CLT advice

Ravenshead — statement taken from T Stephenson — email advice from CLT (prosecution)

All cases dealt within reasonable timescales and submitted accordingly.

Fraud case update; (cases causing issues delays etc).

Individuals comments: _
Kevin Ryan explained_at August One 2 One that at the 3 monthly levelling CK was scored as a ‘S2but
this was levelled to a'=imarking. CK concerned which affected enjoyment of 2 weeks leave. CK to
understand reduction and is working towards obtaining a arking at 6 monthly Appraisal stage.

Team Leader Comments:

e Christopher, along with Mark Dennet, is involved with Court Room Confidence Training for FSA
teams nationally and is presenting such training in October 2013.

e Christopher informed to support Colette McAteer and act as her Security Operations Mentor
which will allow for a smooth transition for Colette from her previous role to her present position
as a Security Manager (Secondment).

e Cases on hand discussed and advice given on how to progress. In particular the complex case
of South Lynn and how a pre interview plan is essential, particularly with the difficult issues
around the evidence that was captured on differing IT systems.

e I informed Christopher to ensure that he maintains control of the movement and storage of
Files and Exhibits, from around our different sites, to permanent storage in Chesterfield. It is
important that the integrity and security of the storage is assured and that he should control
access to the storage until otherwise directed. -

¢ Christopher has raised an issue as being levelled at ais score. I informed Christopher as being
new to the TL post I was not aware of particular level score, but I will look into the matter.

Simon Hutchinson 12/09/13

121 *Christopher G Knight * *12/08/13*
