POL00082391_051
POL00082391_051

Feb-js12

Personal and In Confidence
_Mrl Castleton

www.postoffice.co.uk

Lee Castleton

21 February 2005

Dear Mr Castleton
Re: Post Office® Marine Drive branch

I am writing regarding the future of Post Office® Marine Drive
branch. It has now been several months since I wrote to you
regarding advertising the Branch. In my last letter I said that I
would give you six months to sell the business, it has now
been more than six months.

I have contacted the HR Service Centre today to find out if
there have been any requests for application forms for the
Branch recently. The Agency Recruitment section has advised
me that there have not been any requests.

I now intend to advertise the Branch AT or NEAR, the current
premises. This means that if an interested party is successful
with their application the Post Office® could move into their
premises. This transaction would take place between Post
Office Ltd and the applicant and any licence fee received
would be received by Post Office Ltd

Cath Oyrespy~

Retail Line Manager I GRO.

Post Office Ltd Ld
Crown Street
vost office itd Re RATHI MG LOM MEDI brs} ARNpitered ottce 60-86 OW Steet, London, ECIV INN,

‘The Post Oifice and the Post Office symbol are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd in the UK and other countries.
For the purposes of products regulated under the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000, Post Office Ltd is an appointed representative of Bristol & West plc. who are authorised
‘and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, Registered in England no. 2124201, Registered Office: Bristol & West plc, One Temple Back East, Temple Quay, Bristol BS1 6DX.
Post Office’, car and home insurance is administered by BISL Limited, who are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, Registered in England No 3231094.
Registered office: Pegasus House, Bakewell Road, Orton Southgate, Peterborough, PE2 6YS,

Post Office card account is offered by Citibank International plc through Post Office Ltd. Citbank is 2 registered service mark of Citibank, NA or Citicorp.

Gitibank international pc is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, Registered in England. Number 1088249,

Registered office Citigroup Centre, Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London, £14 SLB, VAT number: GB 4296256 29, Ultimately owned by Citigroup Inc, New York, USA

