POL00053880
POL00053880

John Longman To: Phil Taylor/e/POSTOFFICE@POSTOFFICE, Jarnail A
BD Singh/e/POSTQEFICE@POSTOFFICE
29/01/2010 09:14 ce: warwicktatfordg GRO i

Subject: West Byfleet - Latést Detérice Request for Disclosure

In the Defence Statement at paragraph 19, six further disclosure requests were made. Items v) and
vi) have already been addressed and forwarded to Jarnail.

Items i) to iv) are now listed below and should be served on the defence as soon as possible.
i) Alan Stuart led the audit in October 2005. His report is attached. 126023.zip .

Alan also stated that other than completion of the cash, stock and compliance questionairre, no
other notes would have been made at the time. At that time, paperwork was retained for one month
only, unless it was considered to be a problem office (suspension/special request etc). Apart from the

shortage of £3,500, there was nothing to distinguish the branch, so paperwork would have been
destroyed.

ii) No notes taken by auditors. See comments above.

iii) Mr Junaid Tanveer can be contacted on either

iv) I have e-mailed Tamiko Springer and her reply is as follows. "I have checked my records, I don't
have any notes.on file for West Byfleet,. I only looked after West Byfleet until March 06. After me a
Gerry Conran! GRO __{ BDM) took over. Sorry that I have not been able to help, please don't
hesitate to contact me if you think of anything else.
Tamiko Springer
Business. Development Manager

GRO I

Regerds,
Jon Longman

Seaurity Advisor,
Post Office Ltd, National Security Team

OFFICE ADDRESS: Post Office Investigation Dept, Watford MLO, Ascot Road, Watford, WD18 BAA
LAND LINE PHON Ki Spread the word..-

vou devine:

Confidential Information: This e-mail message is for the sole use of the intended recipient (5) ond may contain

confidentiafand privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited.

Sf you are not the intended recipient, plea se contact me by reply e-mailand destroy all copies of the original message.
?? Please consicier the environment before printing this e-rnail _

