POL00060592
POL00060592

Memo

If you have any questions concerning this
memo please telephone the number below

To: Helen Watson ce:
From: Kiran Sandhu Ref: KS8\KS8\364065.494
Direct: Date: October 2011

Misra Transcripts

I have attached three spreadsheets which detail all of the relevant references in the transcripts which

will assist POL in claiming the following:
« Horizon system free from defects
«Training provided is adequate
« Helpline system is adequate

The spreadsheets have been split it into the three headings and I have numbered each of the entries.
The most important of these have been listed below for your convenience:

Horizon system free from defects

There are the key finding of Horizon which have been identified throughout the trial

« Reports/ Transaction corrections: Horizon enables the Subpostmaster to take ‘snap’ shots of the
amount of cash which Horizon believes the PO Branch to be holding. The Subpostmaster is able
to ensure the PO Branch balances at any given time by checking the cash figure displayed on
Horizon against the cash actually held in the PO Branch.
Horizon permits the Subpostmaster to print reports such as transaction correction reports are
available for up to six months after the alleged error has occurred.
Although Horizon does not automatically print a series of reports for the Subpostmaster the
Subpostmaster does have the opportunity to print these from the system themselves.

*  Recalibration of Horizon computer screen: Independent tests have been conducted on the
Horizon system which has shown no recalibration errors are present. If such errors were to exist

4A 48670781

POL-0057071
POL00060592
POL00060592

there would be problems in numerous PO Branches and would cause the majority of transactions
to be incorrect - we know this to be incorrect.

* Money Pouches: Each pouch contains a bar code permitting it to be easily identifiable. Once the
pouch reaches POL there is photographic evidence of the amount in the pouch and the individual
counting the money.

* Horizon design: Horizon has been designed in a simplistic manner to ensure that it can be
understood by individuals of various backgrounds.

Training provided is adequate

« No 4: Manuals are provided to the Subpostmasters after the training has been completed. This is
to be used as a first point of contact for Subpostmasters.

« No 5: Trainers will spend as long as necessary with the Subpostmaster during training. The
Subpostmaster can request additional assistance is necessary.

e No 6: During the training the Subpostmasters complete tasks which will be necessary during the
course of their employment at the PO branch. Trainer can assess their competency with the
transactions.

« No 7: The trainer has an incentive to ensure the training provided is adequate as this is linked to
the success of the trainer’s position within POL.

« No 9: Training completed in small groups. Allows the trainer to identify which Subpostmaster

requires more assistance.

Helpline system is adequate

« No 2: There are approximately 200 operators to deal with the Subpostmasters calls at any given
time.

« No 6: The Subpostmasters only need to call a single number for the Helpline, for their ease the
call is then directed by POL to the relevant department.

« No 9: The amount of calls received by POL Helpline indicates the value this adds to the
Subpostmasters.

If you have any problems locating a particular section I have referred to please let me
know.

Kind regards
Kiran

4A 48670781

POL-0057071
