POL00122770

POL00122770
Document Information POL Standard/001
Category Security Operations
Version Control I 1.0
Author Chris Knight, Security
Owner Head of Security, Post Office Ltd
Purpose Provide guidance for Security Staff on the process with which to deal

with the secure storage and management of exhibits obtained in the
course of an investigation conducted for Post Office Ltd

Audience Post Office Security
Keywords Security Operations
Privacy level Post Office Ltd Management, Cartwright King Solicitors acting on

behalf of Post Office Ltd
Document type I Electronic [MS Word. Doc], Paper,

Review date Annual
Expiry date Continuous subject to review
Approval
Role Name[s] Date
Assurance Helen Dickinson and Andy Hayward Dec 2012
Authorised Rob King Dec 2012

Version control

Version No. Reason for issue Date

Version 1.0 New procedure Jan 2013

Secure Exhibit Storage

Background
POL00122770

POL00122770

A need to Retain exhibits securely as per Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996
Part Il Retention of Material

5.7 All material which may be relevant to the investigation must be retained until a
decision is taken to institute proceedings against a person for an offence.

5.8 If a criminal investigation results in proceedings being instituted, all material
which may be relevant must be retained at least until the accused is acquitted or
convicted or the prosecutor decides not to proceed with the case.

5.9 Where the accused is convicted, all material which may be relevant must be
retained at least until;

- the convicted person is released from custody, or discharged from hospital,
in cases where the Court imposes a custodial sentence or a hospital order.

- six months from the date of conviction, in all other cases.

If the Court imposes a custodial sentence or hospital order and the convicted
person is released from custody or discharged from hospital earlier than six months
from the date of conviction, all material which may be relevant must be retained at
least until six months from the date of conviction.

5.10 If an appeal against conviction or hospital is in progress when the release or
discharge occurs, or at the end of the period of six months specified in paragraph
5.9, all material which may be relevant must be retained until the appeal is
determined. Similarly, if Criminal Cases Review Commission is considering an
application at that point in time, all material may be relevant must be retained at
least until the Commission decides not to refer the case to the Court of Appeal or
the Crown Court, or until the Court determines the appeal resulting from the
reference by the Commission.

The secure room is to be located at Future Walk, Chesterfield S49 1PF and to be managed
by Mr Christopher Knight, Security Manager.

To provide the Post Office Ltd Security Team with the facility to securely store exhibits prior
to a trial and following a Prosecution.

Exhibit items will be stored in a secure room with Room G07, Future Walk, Chesterfield,
S49 1PF under the control of Mr Knight. Access to the room is via a key controlled by Mr
Knight.

The Police use a computerised logging system which manages their exhibits. Post Office
Ltd does not have access to this but it is in essence only a database. Any referenced filing
system would be adequate for this purpose.

Where a number of Exhibit items in a case are held and wish to be sent to the secure
storage they should be placed within a plastic sack and sealed with a numbered seal.

The bag will then transferred by way of a notebook entry to the secure store. When the
sack is received it will be booked in on the Excel database.

' Clarification to be sort from Solicitors
POL00122770
POL00122770

The sack will not be opened so the onus will be on the OIC to ensure all items are included.
A review date will be set which will be either the Court date or destroy date.
Process

1) Temporary exhibit storage: For the Security Manager he / she will decide if they wish
to submit exhibits to be stored prior to a Court trial. It is suggested that this would
realistically have to be at least two months in advance of a Court date.

The OIC would place all the exhibits in to a clear plastic sack or sacks and seal each
one with a numbered plastic one trip seal. The sealed bag(s) are to be listed in the
OIC’s pocket book as being handed to either the transporting person, the postage
details (Special Delivery to be used) or the Exhibit Store manager; signature(s) of
transfer to be recorded in pocket book.

2) Exhibit storage: On the conclusion of the case the OIC will manage the exhibits using
the following process;

Exhibits

i) Exhibit items that were not used as a part of the prosecution in Court to be
destroyed’

ii) Exhibit items that can be returned to owner / witness’
iii) Exhibit items that are to be securely stored.

Items destined for the exhibit store will be transported as per the process described
previously in this paper.

It is envisaged there will a review of Exhibit items stored so that it does not become a
dumping ground. Reviews to occur twice a year.

A sample of the Exhibit Store record is shown below.

xX. Exhibit Seal ' Disposal
number I Papernumbers I ympor I number I OIC I Comments I ReviewDate I Disposal Date I  G{°hOsa
api2sas6y I EMS I Court date
X41 I POLTD/1213/0123 I EP/100 = _ spnncors 20/08/2013 20/08/2014 Destroyed
X2

Disposal would also include returned to OIC.

' Clarification to be sort from Solicitors
