POL00084214
POL00084214

Activity

Transfer Workaid

Planning

Contact Debt Recovery team to ascertain if any outstanding debt is to be recovered on closure of the
branch, i tnianiennenninneny
Agent Debt (Branch Control) Paul Dann i GRO '

Planned

Planning

Contact the outgoing agent al least 5 working days prior to transfer and Confirm receipt of transfer letter.
Discuss the Pre Transfer Activities list (attached to transfer letter sent to branch) to ensure the branch is
preparing for transfer. Pre Transfer Activities list can be found overleaf.

If there are any unresolved Cash In Pouch or Remittance discrepancies (cash) please contact the
appropriate team below to confirm they are proper to be held & if so to arrange a Transactional Correction
to be sent to the branch prior to closure.

Cash in pouches

Remittances discrepancies (cash) I Dave Lancashire

Obtain a one shot password { } NB: if the transfer is at 17.30 obtain the password before closing, as
the personnel section, authorising the password, will be unavailable after 17.30

Planned

Planning

Agree audit attendance time with the outgoing agent considering:
1. The number of stock units and level of cash and stock at the branch
2. The resource allocated for the transfer
3. The incoming agent has a right to verify all cash and stock
4. Time of transfer
5. If the branch is relocating will the new incoming agent be on site to accept cash and stock
Agree a time for the incoming agent to attend the branch, asks the outgoing agent to contact the new agent
andrelay,
If a closure notice is required ask the agent to contact Darley Services on! GRO

On site

Planned

On arrival, ask the agent for the Pre Transfer Activity list and the transfer pack.
Confirm what activities have taken place in preparation for transfer.

Planned

Rem
Verification

Contact the Admin Support to confirm the last five working days inward and outward rems.

Planned/
Unplanne
d

On site

Ask the outgoing agent to add you to Horizon with Manager access. If dealing with a suspension or you
need to post items to late account you will need to get ZAUD99 access via NBSC.

Planned/
Unplanne
d

Pay station

Ensure that the Terms and Conditions have been signed by the incoming agent (sent with transfer

Page 1
POL00084214

POL00084214
paperwork) and returned. If the Terms & Conditions are not available please contact Craig Tuthill by email
for another copy.
+ Ensure that the paystation has been reconciled as part of the final account
+ Ensure that it is listed in the network equipment sheet: are signed I ing and outgoing Postmasters.
+ If the Paystation is not on site contact Jane Adcock o: or Mobe;
* You will need to ensure that there are no outstanding barcode summaries by producing an unseen barcode summary report
from Paystation using the following path ADMIN, enter, Reports menu, enter, unseen barcode summary report enter yes.
The terminal will produce a report detailing all outstanding barcode summaries. These must be reprinted using the following
path Admin, enter, Print BCS, enter, at this point enter the batch ID number from the unseen BCS report the BCS will then
print out and this can be scanned into Horizon this process must be undertaken for each outstanding BCS listed on the
barcode summary report. As part of the end of day process a cut off would need to be run on the terminal. This produces a
bar-coded summary for the total value of transactions performed that day. The bar-coded summary and the associated cash
should then be taken to the Horizon terminal and the summary scanned in as an AP transaction, and the cash placed in the
till.
8 AV Once the branch is closed, oversee the transfer as described in the Compliance Team process manual, Planned/
chapter 4 Transfers. Unplanne
Ensure that cash and stock is recorded correctly on Horizon. If it is not, re declare cash and stock on hand; I d
agree any discrepancies on hand with the outgoing agent.
9 TC’s Bring any outstanding Transactional Corrections to account. Planned/
Unplanne
d
10 Reconciliati_ I Complete all the reconciliation's and prepare the weekly pouches to Chesterfield, Girobank etc. Planned/
ons If the branch has not completed MVL reconciliation for some time then contact PBA to get a starting figure. I Unplanne
it : d
11 Rems to Please note that Travellers Cheques cannot be transferred to a branch changing FAD code. Planned/
BdC Spoil traveller cheques & complete TC8 - annotate branch transfer and despatch in purple pouch marked Unplanne
TC's d
12 Loss or gain I Has the branch got sufficient funds available to make the discrepancy good at that time? Planned/
clearance Discuss how the agent will mak d I Credit/Debit card payments can be accepted by calling Unplanne
Debt Recovery team on debit/credit card payments can be offered if before 5pm _ =I d
Monday to Thursday and y. Please note that any credit/debit cards payments
should not be reflected in the final account i.e. the Debt Recovery team would match the loss in the Final
Trading Statement with the payment.
The branch has got the funds so the Add Cash or Remove XS functions are used as appropriate.
The physical cash is put in or taken out of the till.
A Trial Balance is produced following BAU processes

Page 2
POL00084214

POL00084214
The Branch should roll into the next BP or TP as appropriate:
e Ifthe branch is permanently closing it should roll into the next TP.
e If the branch is changing ownership and it is NOT a scheduled TP rollover week then it should roll
into the next BP
e If the branch is changing ownership and it is a scheduled TP rollover week then it should roll into the
next TP
An Office Snapshot is produced following BAU processes The snapshot is checked to ensure that no
discrepancies are being carried forward at the expense of an incoming Subpostmaster.
13 Final Proceed to complete the Trading Statement or final balance snap shot and prepare P242 Final Trading Planned/
Account Statement. Detail all Non value stock items on the front of the P242. If the transfer is taking place on a day I Unplanne
outside the allocated Trading Statement day, then the final balance snap shot should be attached to the d
P242.
14 Horizon On Horizon create a new user at manager access level for the incoming agent and ensure that the outgoing I Planned/
agent has been deleted as a user. Supervise the incoming agent add any new staff. Print off a Horizon Unplanne
User Summary. d
15 Transfer Complete the remaining papers in the transfer pack. All staff recorded on the horizon user summary should I Planned/
Pack be on the P356. Unplanne
d
16 Alarm Code I Change the alarm codes ensuring that the new agent enters his own code into alarm panel Planned/
Unplanne
d
17 Former Inform the outgoing agent that he/she is still liable for any errors revealed at a later date that were made Planned/
Spmr during his/her term of appointment Unplanne
account d
18 P242 Ensure that both the outgoing and incoming agents sign the P242, as well as the lead branch auditor. If Planned/
there is an amount is suspense, note the reason for the suspense item. Enclose in an envelope; mark FAO I Unplanne
Paul Dann, Debt Recovery Team and forward to Chesterfield in the brown pouch on the day of the transfer. [d
19 Despatch Despatch all weekly pouches/envelopes as soon as operationally possible Planned/
Unplanne
d
20 Despatch Return all relevant paperwork to Agency Recruitment and the Former Subpostmaster Accounts Team as per I Planned/
transfer pack instructions. Unplanne
d
21 Investigatio I Contact should be made with the investigators to confirm what/if any accounting documents they require. Unplanne
n support These should be taken off site if requested by the investigators. d

Page 3
POL00084214
POL00084214

22

Retention of
paperwork

File paperwork locally for 60 days. If there were issues on closure or if there was a suspension please
retain the paperwork in accordance with the Retention of paperwork policy.

Planned/
Unplanne
d

Page 4
