POL00127136
POL00127136

One to One Meeting Record

Name: Suzanne Winter

Line Manager: Simon Hutchinson

Date of meeting: 17/09/2013

One to One period covered: I 02/08/2013 to 17/09/2013

Celebrate key activities/Understand priorities/Imagine what you need to deliver activities

e Celebrate:
Received an invitation from the Secretary of State for NI The Rt Hon Theresa Villiers MP
requesting the honour of my company at her annual Garden party in Hillsborough Castle.
HRH Prince Edward was special guest. Wonderful day.

Success regarding the safety and movement of CViT vehicles during the major civil unrest in
NI involving cultural flag events and sectarian marching. The success was due to full
engagement with PSNI, City councils, customers and stakeholders.

Understand Priorities:
The significant impact the Second Sight review may have on my POL cases and for future
investigations.

Imagine:
Good time management to meet delivery target dates for investigation files.

Priorities this month -

Fortwilliam Extortion case: Continue to pursue updates with PSNI and keep Network updated re
threat against spm.

Centre: Assist with Centre investigation and resolve the issue by next 121.

NT Programme: Continue assisting the team with review of risk assessments for offices in the
programme.

NI Legal Advisor: Ongoing liaison with NI Solicitor and organise Horizon Training.
Ballynafeigh: progress case to PPS.
North Kenton: progress legal advice regarding witness request for original exhibits.

Stripe: exercise to be completed asap.

121 *Suzanne Winter 17/09/2013 1
POL00127136
POL00127136

How you demonstrate our Directorate Behaviours — Care, Challenge, Commit

Crime Prevention/Detection:

Attended meetings with PSNI Organised Crime Unit due to a perceived serious threat of attack on
Post Office CViT vehicles in West Belfast. Liaised with CViT Managers and task force to ensure
safety of crew and vehicles. (Members of the Organised gang have been arrested and charged).

Attended meetings with Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) re alleged drug trafficking activity
in NI.

Counterfeit Coin: Alerted offices re poss counterfeit coin in escalation border region.

Moy: Met with spm as had reported concerns of £22k loss after a member of staff had went on sick
absence. Arranged audit and ongoing liaison with police.

CviT Robbery: GV alert to BT area as stained notes from robbery circulating in shops.

Security Visits: office visits conducted within time scale.

Crown Office Support:

Industrial Action at Crown Offices: Supported Belfast City Crown Office during staff industrial action.
Londonderry: ongoing liaison with Romec and managers due to previous thefts ensuring security
processes are robust.

Audit Support:

Allistragh: attended office during audit as loss identified. Discussed security processes.

EOS Workshop: attended EOS workshop which enabled me to voice any concerns, issues etc.

Progress against objectives Next milestone

On Target Buddy visits to be progressed.

Continue to conduct security/
tiger kidnap briefing to new

121 *Suzanne Winter 17/09/2013 2
POL00127136
POL00127136

entrants

Training and Development Programme”. On hold. NI Programme to be
transferred to SW to assist SH.

Areas for development/Support Activity Plan Progress
required/Time management

TOIL to be kept below the max of
15 hours.

Action Points and Line Managers comments

All Action points from previous One to One completed

Continued mentoring of Simon Hutchinson

Training Programme: discuss with Simon Hutchinson as already in hand with Katie Barber. Suggest
be given responsibility of NI programme.

Fraud case update; (cases causing issues delays etc).

Ballynafeigh : decision to be taken if second interview to be conducted as unable to locate
assistants.

Annual Leave :

Team Leader Comments:
e Fantastic opportunity re invitation from the Secretary of State for NI to attend the annual
Garden party in Hillsborough Castle. HRH Prince Edward was special guest.
Icontinued engagement with the PSNI regarding on-going civil unrest and terrorist
activity across the province
e Further engagement with PSNI Organised Crime Dept re potential CViT attacks and
subsequent Supply Chain to mitigate acknowledged
e Assisted SOCA in an on-going Drugs importation investigation seen as very good law
enforcement engagement for Pol Sec
Suzanne has had a recent increase in Police Liaison cases in Northern Ireland, which are being
progressed accordingly.

Simon Hutchinson 17/9/13

121 *Suzanne Winter 17/09/2013 3
