POL00051984

POL00051984
Alliance & Leicester ple
am LJ Customer Service Centre
. Narborough Leicester LE19 OAL
Alliance Telephonef
DX 11000
Leicester vowalanceelcesteco.sk

Witness Statement (Ref LEA 24865)

Statement of Laura Currie

Occupation: Bank Official Age: Over 21

This statement (consisting of this one page, signed by me) is true to the best
of my knowledge and belief and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in
evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully stated in it
anything which I know to be false or do not believe to be true.

Dated the 26% August 2009

Laura Currie

Tam Laura Currie and I am employed by Alliance & Leicester Ple within the
Group Money Laundering Department of the Alliance & Leicester ple at the
Customer Services Centre, Carlton Park, Narborough Leicester, Leics, LE19
OAL. Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank Corporate and Small Business
Accounts remain the responsibility of the Alliance & Leicester ple. The
records copied herewith and referred to in this my statement dated 26
August 2009 and exhibited as items LC 1 have been extracted from day to
day business records of Alliance & Leicester Plc. They relate to accounts
and/or transactions between the Company and Mrs M Holmes Trading As
Cakes Classes & Cutters. All bank statements sent in respect of this account
are taken from Alliance & Leicester ple computerised records.

Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank utilise the Post Offices for its account
holders to conduct their business. Where deposits of cash are to be made
the account holder must complete a cash deposit document which contains
details of their account and the actual amount to be deposited. The
Postmaster must verify that the cash deposited corresponds with the deposit
document. He will then stamp the deposit document and enter the account
number and the amount of cash deposited onto his Daily Record of deposits
(G9901MA). This procedure applies even when the Postmaster is carrying
out his own transactions. The deposit slip and PDR’s are placed into the
Postmasters pouch which is sealed at the end of that working day. The
pouch is collected by Royal Mail who delivers it to the Processing Centre at
Bootle. Each pouch bears a bar code which identifies the originating Post
Office. When the pouch arrives at the Processing Centre the pouch bar code
is swiped and the computer automatically records the receipt of the pouch.
The sealed pouch is transferred to Pouch Opening Section where the seal is
proken and the contents outsorted.

1990006 (9/06)

Telephone calls may be recorded or monitored for security, quality control and training purposes.

POL00051984
POL00051984

The PDR’s deposit documents and cheques from the same Post Office are
batched and processed together.

All documents are placed in a box and are forwarded to Image Processing
Department. During Image processing all documents are microfilmed in
flight’ and each document is given an Input Serial Number (ISN) which is
recorded on the customer’s account and it is by these means that we can
identify any specific deposit to any account. It is also during this process
that the cash or cheque details are keyed onto the bank’s computer and the
data captured for inclusion to the customer’s account. The PDR’s,
customers’ deposit documents and cheques are separated by the machine
and outsorted. The cheques are forwarded through the Bank Clearing
System for clearance. The customer’s deposit documents are destroyed
immediately after filming and processing. The PDR’s are streamed and
retained for three weeks. Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank ple does not
receive cash, the bank accept in good faith that the deposit documents
and/or the Postmasters daily records are genuine transactions and will
credit the customers account on receipt of the said documents.

LC1 - Copies of our internal Transaction History records in
respect of account number in the name of Mrs M
Holmes Trading as Cakes Classes & Cutter, 23 Princes Road,
Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE3 5TT for the period covering 18‘
August 2007 to 18t October 2008. These statements have been
taken from the Alliance & Leicester computerised records in
respect of account,

This is my Statement and I believe the same to be true and accurate based
upon my understanding of the circumstances and the records available to

nea re rreermnie

Signatur

Witnessed by....

