POL00107919

POL00107919
Message
From: Dave Posnett !
on behalfof Dave Posnett! . a G RO . . . _.
Sent: 22/05/2013 09:
To: Rodric Williams i
Subject: RE: Spot Reviews Investigation Reports - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege - Do Not

Forward

Thanks Rodric.
Regards,

Dave Posnett I Accredited Financial Investigator

Sesurity.Team, 2" Floor Banner Wing, 148 Old St, London, EC1V 9HQ

From: Rodric Williams

Sent: 22 May 2013 10:42

To: John M Scott; Rob King

Cc: Dave Posnett

Subject: Spot Reviews Investigation Reports - Strictly Private and Confidential — Subject to Legal Privilege —- Do Not
Forward

Strictly Private and Confidential - Subject to Legal Privilege - Do Not Forward

John, Rob,

Here is an update on the Horizon Spot Reviews which Dave Posnett is assisting us
with. I am sending this to seek to maintain all applicable legal privilege over
this communication.

¢ The first 4 Spot Reviews have now been submitted to 2 Sight after being
signed off by Susan Crichton and Angela Van Den Bogerd. Initial feedback
from 24 Sight in relation to our responses has been positive, to such an
extent that they are content for POL to conduct analysis on Horizon data and
report our findings, as opposed to sending data to 2™ Sight for
analysis/comments.

© The working group now have a further 5 Spot Reviews and we are progressing
these. Actions have been allocated and a further face to face meeting of
the working group is planned for Wednesday 22™4 May, in addition to the
weekly conference calls. The intention is to remain consistent and keep
reported findings in the same format as the first 4 Spot Reviews.

e None of the Spot Reviews to date have found specific faults with Horizon,
though in some instances the Horizon data is too old to retrieve and
interrogate. Rather, it seems to be the processes and procedures adopted by
branches that have caused them to think that Horizon was at fault.

e Some of the Spot Reviews appear somewhat lacking in gravity (e.g. selling a
stamp, Horizon freezes and numerous receipts are generated). We are
nevertheless dealing with the issues which come our way, irrespective of
perceived significance. Simon Baker is contemplating a re-focus, with a

POL-0106139
POL00107919
POL00107919

view to asking 2™ Sight whether they want to flag up more serious examples,
especially if suspensions or criminal investigations have been the end
result of Horizon data concerns.

e® Dave is identifying which Spot Reviews involved interviews under caution and
prosecutions, supplying me with pertinent Investigation Reports where
applicable. This enables us to have a more comprehensive picture of each
Spot Review, as opposed to being restricted to the allegations/claims cited
by the Subpostmasters in question. We can the use information contained in
the Investigation Reports as appropriate as we progress through the Spot
Reviews.

Kind regards, Rodric

Rodric Williams I Litigation Lawyer

iC 148 Old Street, LONDON, ECLV 9HQ
©
@
®
©

POL-0106139
