POL00044858
POL00044858

fe, ReVenue

APPENDIX A

Royal Mail

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION FROM THE INLAND REVENUE UNDER THE ANTI-TERRORISM CRIME
AND SECURITY ACT 2001

Ged Harbinson

Post Office Ltd Investigation
Team

Full name:

Full address:

Date of birth:

National Insurance No: GRO I

Other relevant information Previously Sub-Postmaster at Ten Acre Street Post
as appropriate: Office. 3 DogPool Lane Birmingham

tate details of the criminal investigation or proceedings to which request relates

The above named was the Sub-postmaster at Ten Acre Street Post Office. 3 Dogpool Lane
Birmingham. Tahir MAHMOOD was suspended from duty on the 30/04/05 following the
discovery of a shortage in the office accounts totalling £33,437.39 He pleaded guilty to 6 counts
of false accounting (contrary to Section 17(1) of the theft act 1968). Following his guilty plea for
False Accounting, I have conduct of Confiscation Investigation into Tahir MAHMOOD’S “Benefit
from Crime” under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.

cs2t0

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group ple. Registered number 4138203, Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9H
POL00044858
POL00044858

fe, ReVenue

Royal Mail

1. Details of income & tax returns between January 2003 to May 2005.
2. Details of bank accounts or investments held by Tahir MAHMOOD
3. Details of any companies or which Tahir MAHMOOD is involved

Tahir MAHMOOD has been asked previously for the information requested and has failed to
supply it and do not think it worthwhile asking Tahir MAHMOOD again for the information.

The information will be of substantial value in this financial investigation as it confirms whether
there is evidence of assets, which may not have been obtained through honest means and
would support the proceedings currently under way.

If the information is not provided, it would lessen the likelihood of Tahir MAHMOOD being
properly dealt with for his actions at the confiscation hearing set by the court

Name (Print).......ccsseceeeeseeereeereseeeeenes Rank,.....cceceecceseceeeseeeceseeseeeeesceeeeee
Location........cccssecccceeeeeeseeeeceeeeneeeees Sigmature..........cscccecescesceeeeeceeeeseseeenee
Date.

cs2t0

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group ple. Registered number 4138203. Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9H
POL00044858
POL00044858

Royal Mail

cs2t0

Royal Mail is a trading name of Royal Mail Group ple. Registered number 4138203. Registered in England and Wales. Registered office: 148 Old Street, LONDON, EC1V 9H
The Protective Marking Definitions

POL00044858
POL00044858

@ XIGNSddV

International Defence Security & Public order & Economic interests Law enforcement Policy and operations
relations Intelligence private rights of public service
TOP SECRET ‘Caiise exceptionally I Cause exceptionally I Cause exceptionally I Lead directly to Cause severe Tong-term
‘grave damage to ‘grave damage tothe I grave damage to the I widespread loss of life I damage to the UK
relations with friendly I effectiveness or security I continuing ‘economy
governments OfUK or allied forces I effectiveness of ‘Threaten directly the
extremely valuable
‘Threaten directly the security or intelligence
ternal stability of ‘operations
ftiendly countries
‘SECRET Raise intemational I Cause serious damage to I Cause serious damage I Threaten life direcly I Cause substantial
tension the operational to the continuing ‘material damage to
effectiveness or security I effectiveness of highly I Seriously prejudice I national economic and
Damage seriously of UK orallied forces I valuable security or I public order, or commercial interests
relations with friendly imelligence operations I individual security of
governments liberty
CONFIDENTIAL Materially damage ‘Cause damage to the I Cause damage tothe I Prejudice individual Work substantially ‘impede the Tmpede seriously the
diplomatic relations (ie.I operational effectiveness of security or liberty against national investigation of serious I development or
cause formal protest or I effectiveness or security I valuable security or economic and crime operation of major
other sanction) of UK allied forces imelligence operations commercial interests government policies
Facititate the
Undermine commission of serious ‘Shut down or otherwise
substantially the crime substantially disrupt
financial viability of significant national
major organisations operations
RESTRICTED Affect adversely Make it more difficult to Cause substantial ‘Cause financial loss or I Prejudice the Impede the effective
diplomatic retations I maintain the operational distress to individuals I loss or earning potential I investigation of crime I development or
effectiveness or security to or facilitate improper ‘operation of

of UK or allied forces

Breach proper
undertakings to
‘maintain the confidence
of information provided
by third parties

gain or advantage for
individuals ot
companies

Facilitate the
commission of crime

government policies

Breach statutory
restrictions on
disclosure of
information

Disadvantage
government in
‘commercial or policy
negotiations with others

Undermine the proper
management of the
public sector and its
operations

UAreasL Lorde FILESIESPOLICE Protect Mak Definitions dc\deb

IIOW IDfioy
