POL00104873
POL00104873

Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

Appendix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related
Intelligence Checks

Version 2.0 Final
May 2011

Review Date: May 2013

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards
Royal Mail Security
POL00104873

POL00104873

Contents

Key Accountabilities 3
1. Local Management Checks 4
2. Police National Computer (PNC) Individual Checks 4
3. Local Police Intelligence Checks 5
4. Human Resources Service Centre (HRSC) Checks 5
5. Equifax Checks 5
6. Police National Computer (PNC) Vehicle Checks 7
7. DWP, HMRC and Local Authority Benefit Checks 7
8. Serious and Organised Crime Act (SOCA) Flagging Checks 7
9. Land Registry Checks 7
10. Company House Checks 7
11. Conducting Intelligence Checks 7
Change Control 9
Glossary 10
POL00104873

POL00104873
Key Accountabilities
Who is © What do I have to I When do I have I How do I do ©
accountable? I do? _ I I

to do this?

this?

All members
of Royal Mail
Security

with these
procedures

Ensure you comply I Ongoing

As detailed
within these
procedures

© Royal Mail 2011

x 1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence

POL00104873
POL00104873

Risk Related Intelligence Checks
1. Local Management Checks

1.1 This check can reveal aspects of the suspect’s personality and
domestic circumstances. The manager should be asked specific
questions such as the likely response when being apprehended or if
there is anything known about the domestic circumstances including
other occupants at the home address. The local manager may also be
able to supply information on such things as drug and alcohol
habits, hobbies, pets and disciplinary record.

2. Police National Computer (PNC) Individual Checks

2.1As a general rule a date of birth (DOB) is required if a PNC
individual check is to be carried out by the RM Security Intelligence
Team. This is because if a common name was put into the system it
would result in many hits and we are not authorised to view numerous
individuals’ details to specifically attempt to find the individual
under investigation. If the subject of the enquiry has an unusual
name or the Investigator is able to give an approximate DOB then the
Security Intelligence Team would be prepared to do the check, however
if more than 2 or 3 matches come up they do not have the facility to
further the request. (Addresses are on the PNC but it is not
possible to search on addresses you have to go into the entry to
confirm it. Additionally as the PNC is about individuals and not
addresses the recorded address may not be current).

2.2 A PNC Individual check may reveal previous convictions. It may also
flag up warning indicators and codes. There are 14 different
warning indicators on the PNC, albeit not all relate to Health and
Safety (H&S) as detailed below;

Warning Meaning Warning Meaning
May suffer from a medical
rrrearms I May possess ATLMEN? disorder and/or require
firearms medication e.g. heart
condition, claustrophobia.
WEAPONS May possess weapons I DRUGS May be in unlawful possession
of drugs
VIOLENT May resozt to ESCAPER May attempt to escape

violence
SUICIDAL I May attempt suicide I EXPLOSIVES I May possess explosives
May suffer from May make false allegations

MENTAL ALLEGES

metal disorder against the police

SELF HARM [May self harm M/IMPERS May impersonate a male
May be a hazard to

CONTAGIOUS I others as a carrier I F/IMPERS May impersonate a female

of a disease

2.3 Please note the important word is may. If one or more of these
warnings have been entered onto a record they will be displayed in
prioritised order, accompanied by up to 30 characters of explanatory
text, a Force Station Code and a Source Reference Number.

2.4 Additionally the PNC check may have the following codes on it;

Code Meaning Code Meaning

BC Bail Conditions AS Arrest/Summons
Wanted or Missing
report

WM IP Impending Prosecutions

© Royal Mail 2011

1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence Checks (4.2.1) = RM V2.0 ~ Page 4 of 11
POL00104873

POL00104873
D Detained Report DNA DNA
Disqualified

DD Deiver DH Disposal History
AL Alias names I Intelligence

Local Cross reference ~
AB Alias DOB LX another force carrying out a

search this person

2.5 In addition to the warnings and codes the PNC may well have

information on it in text. Such information may well include
details about current and past firearms certificates (including
whether such certificates have been refused) or whether the person
has been recalled to a psychiatric hospital.

Local Police Intelligence Checks

A check with the local police could reveal further intelligence
which will have an impact on the PORA. The check should include all
the available names and DOB of persons thought to be occupants and
any vehicles thought to be connected to the relevant address.
(Vehicles are checked because local intelligence may reveal such
things as weapons have been carried in the vehicle in the past.)

Local police intelligence checks are subject to local practices. In
some police areas they will conduct PNC individual checks on all
persons thought to be occupants. In other areas they will only
check their local intelligence databases and expect the officer in
the case to conduct any PNC individual checks themselves.
Accordingly Investigators should establish the local practice and if
they conduct PNC checks then the Investigator should include in the
request to be supplied with results of them. If the police do not
conduct PNC individual checks and the Investigator thinks they are
appropriate then the police may be able to furnish the Investigator
with DOB’s, from the police intelligence, enabling Investigators to
conduct them themselves.

Finally the local police should be asked to indicate as part of
their intelligence checks if they have undertaken a Serious
Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) National Flagging and Status Check
(Form RD26-01) and if so what the results were. The Investigator in
Charge (IIC) will need to know if there are any H&S issues or
potential for a “blue on blue” incident, in order that action can be
taken to prevent one.

Criminal Justice Secure Mail. Sometimes local Police will be
reluctant to share information over insecure telephones or emails.
If the Police request a secure network then Investigation Team
Managers have access to a network known as the Criminal Justice
Secure Mail (CJSM). This allows information up to ‘Restricted’ (i.e.
sensitive data), to be sent in a secure way. Should Investigators
experience problems with the Police and require further assistance
regarding the use of secure email to facilitate intelligence sharing
they may wish to consult with the RM Security Criminal Intelligence
Liaison Manager on in their
absence the Senior j

Investigators should remember that if the Police will not assist, or
at least confirm that there are no known Health and Safety risks in
visiting a particular address, then the planned operation becomes a
“High Risk” operation.

@ Royal Mail 2011 dix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intellige

POL00104873
POL00104873

4. Human Resource Service Centre (HRSC) Checks

4.1 There are three types of HRSC check;

4.1.1 A Basic Report which provides the employee’s details, name,
date of birth (DOB), NI number, start date and work location.

4.1.2 A Full Report which is a basic report with the addition of
the person’s sick/attendance record. This may highlight such
conditions such as depression which may have an impact on H&S.

4.1.3 A File Request which is the paper file on the employee.
Investigators should note however that an employee’s conduct
record, which may highlight issues such as violence or
aggression, will only be included in the paper file if it is
specifically requested. The file may also reveal domestic
circumstances such as ages of children, who could be present at
a search.

5. Equifax Checks

5.1 Equifax is a Credit Reference Agency. It maintains a database of
information about people and addresses. Equifax checks can be used
to identify other occupants of an address(es) to be visited and
potentially obtain their DOB in order that individual PNC checks can
be conducted. There are many types of Equifax checks but the three
most commonly used are as follows;

5.1.1 An ID check. This is a check on one named person. It contains
amongst other things;

a. County Court Judgements - details of any County Court
Judgements against the person.

b. Full Electoral Roll Information - for all persons registered
at the address. The electoral roll data can come from either
the “annual formal electoral roll” or the “rolling register”.
The annual formal electoral roll will detail the start year
and the last year of registration of all persons at the
particular address. The rolling register allows a resident
to register the month they moved into or out of a property,
however it is not mandatory and it requires notification by
the individual to their Local Authority. Investigators
should note that it is estimated that 8% of adults are not
registered on the Electoral Roll.

c. A Record of “Searches” - these are searches carried out by
Equifax clients for various reasons, including such things as
identity checks, credit status, trace enquiries by debt
collectors etc. The reason for the search will be detailed
on the check and it will reveal the date of the search and
any DOB given by the subject.

d. ID Plus summary of “Insight Records”. Insight is the name
for data which is sent by credit providers detailing the
repayments on accounts by the named person at the specific
address. It is updated monthly. The summary details open
and closed accounts. An open account means that the subject
is continuing to pay a credit agreement and the credit
provider has that address recorded as the current address. A
closed account means that the credit arrangement has come to
an end or that the subject has notified the credit provider
of a new address. Generally the more accounts that are open
then the more likely it is that the subject resides at the
address. If all accounts are closed then the person is no
longer financially active at the address and may well have
moved on.

@ Royal Mail 2011 ndix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence Checks (4.2.1) - RM V2.0 - Page 6 of 11

POL00104873
POL00104873

5.1.2 All Names List. This is a list of every variation of title
and name at the address concerned for whom Equifax hold a piece
of data. The list is updated in chronological order with the
name of the person whose data file has been updated the most
recently at the top. The list will include the DOB if Equifax
hold a record of it. In addition the All Names List details the
“Data Source” which caused the person to be included on the
list. Below is some guidance on interpreting the Data Sources.
a. Electoral Roll - including “Rolling Register” means

that at some time the named person has appeared on the
electoral roll at that address. It does not however give the
dates of registration. (The dates registered on the
electoral roll are on the Basic Check).

b. Insight - means that “Insight” records have been
updated on the person at the address see paragraph 2b above.

c. Linked Address - means that Equifax have information on
either a previous address of the named person or an address
that they have moved on to. Further information on linked
addresses can be obtained from the Security Intelligence
Team.

d. Insight, Linked Address - means that Equifax have information
on either a previous address of the named person or a
subsequent address which has been provided by Insight credit
provider.

e. Search - means that a client search has been made on the
named person at the address, see paragraph 2a above

f. Financial Associate - means that they are connected to
the address as they have a financial association with a
person at the address such as a joint account.

5.1.3 Full Investigation. This provides all information held by
Equifax. So in addition to all of the above it includes
substantial financial information about a person’s credit
repayment regime.

By examining and comparing the ‘All Names List” against the
“Electoral Roll” information, Investigators should be able to
identify, with a degree of probability, who is currently resident at
an address and their DOB. (The All Names List provides DOB if
available).

When Investigators request Equifax Checks as part of the PORA
process they should undertake a “Full Investigation” Equifax Check.
This will ensure that the maximum amount of data is available.
Acquiring a Full Check will also reduce duplication should the
suspect's finances be within the scope of the investigation.

Police National Computer (PNC) Vehicle Checks

Another way of identifying occupants of an address is to conduct a
PNC vehicle check known as a “#VF vehicle transaction”. This check
reveals all vehicles and their registered owners’ recorded at
particular addresses within a postcode area.

DWP, HMRC and Local Authority Benefits Checks

Intelligence on occupants at addresses may also be available from
Government departments which provide benefits. Establishing what
benefits are being claimed at particular addresses may identify
previously unknown occupants. Intelligence may detail family
members including children and their ages. Investigators should

© Royal Mail 2011 ndix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence Checks (4.2.1) - RM V2.0 ~ Page 7 of LL

POL00104873
POL00104873

note however that some organisations will respond to a request whist
others will not. In addition the response time may well be lengthy
making the checks impracticable.

8. Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) Flagging Checks

8.1 SOCA manages a National Flagging Database on behalf of UK law
enforcement and prosecuting agencies which “flags” information about
people and addresses of interest. These flags may well have H&S
implications. Unfortunately not all the flags on the SOCA Database
will be known to local police and not all the local police flags
will be on the SOCA Flagging Database. However, there are strict
protocols in place at SOCA before they will conduct a status check
against the National Flagging Database.

8.2 Briefly the protocols are that SOCA may conduct a status check in
cases where Investigators believe that they are investigating
serious or organised crime, to see if relevant people or addresses
are flagged of interest to Law Enforcement. Should SOCA get a “hit”
then appropriate arrangements will be made in respect of progressing
the case.

8.3 Should Investigators require further information about SOCA status
checks they should make enquiri' i i imi
Intelligence Liaison Manager ont

9. Land Registry Checks

9.1 Land Registry Checks can be used to establish who owns any property
which may be the subject of a search.

10. Company House Checks

10.1 Information is available on the identity of company officers
(Directors and Company Secretaries etc.) of all companies registered
with Company House. This information is available from Equifax and
can be accessed by the Security Intelligence Team.

11. Conducting Intelligence Checks

11.1 Intelligence checks should be conducted as detailed below;

Check

Local Management check
PNC Individual check

Requirements
Directly to the local manager.

Submit the “PNC Individual” section of
the GS208, Electronic Intelligence
Gathering form through line manager to
the RM Security Intelligence Team
(SIT).

Metropolitan Police Service (MPS) Area

Local Police

Intelligence check.
(Should the police
require the request to
be dealt with over a
secure network then the
CJSM network should be
used. (See paragraph 3.4
above)

~ Investigators should initially submit
the “Police Intelligence Check” section
of the GS208 Data Protection form to
the relevant Borough Intelligence Unit
(BIU). Contact details of BIU are
associated in the embedded document.

MPS BIU Contact
Details.doc
All Other Police Areas - Submit the

© Royal Mail 2011

1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence

Checks (4.2.1) ~ RM V2.0 ~ Page 8 of LL
POL00104873

POL00104873

“Police Intelligence Check” section of
the GS208 form directly to the local
police.

HRSC check

Submit the “Human Resource” section of
the GS208 form directly to the RM
Security SIT.

Equifax check

Submit the “Equifax” section of the
GS208 form directly to the RM Security
sItT.

PNC Vehicle check

Submit the “PNC Vehicle” section of the
GS208, form through line manager to the
RM Security SIT.

DWP, HMRC and Local
Authority Benefits Check

Submit the “DPA” section of the GS208
form through line manager to the RM

Security SIT.

SOCA Flag Check

Discuss the case with the RM Security
Criminal Intelligence Liaison Manager

Land Registry Check

Submit the “Land Registry” section of
the GS208 form to the RM Security SIT.

11.2 If urgent PNC checks are required they can be requested over the
telephone in accordance with the P&S “Access to PNC Data for
Intelligence Purposes” which can be found on the Royal Mail Security
Sharepoint site under Security Intelligence Procedures and

Standards, Transactions.

© Royal Mail 2011

1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intelligence Checks (4.2.1) = RM V2.0 ~ Page 9 of 11
POL00104873
POL00104873

Change Control

Draft

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews
May 2011

Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via V1 May 2011
Security Sharepoint

Documentation History

Vil V2

Final Final
Mar 2011 May
Mar 2001 May

Document Change History

jocument Produce
The process for obtaining local Police
Intelligence Checks has changed in the
Metropolitan Police area. Now checks direct to
BIU

ecks (4.2.1) - RM V2.0 ~ Page

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related In
Glossary

POL00104873
POL00104873

Royal Mai

Police National Computer

Date of Birth

Serious and Organised Crime Agency

Criminal Justice Secure Mail

Health and Safety

Department of Work and Pensions

Her Majesties Revenue and Customs

Borough Intelligence Unit

Document Summary

If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews

Procedures and Standards Manager
Royal Mail Security

6A Eccleston Street

LONDON

SW11 9LT

Postline:
STD:
Email f GRO

© Royal Mail 2011 Appendix 1 to 4.2 Risk Related Intell.

Checks (4.2.1)

RA v2.0
