POLO0118110
POL00118110

Tue 30/10/2012 5:1

To: Darrell Kennedy
Edwarc :

Edwards}

Colman{_

Sarfraz Akram”
Subject: FW: Case Compliance
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image009.jpg
Attachment: image007.jpg
Attachment: image018.jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image007.jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: image008.jpg
Attachment: image002.jpg
Attachment: Compliance 2012-2013.zip

Hi All,
I am assuming that most of you (if not all) have seen the case compliance info before. Now that everyone
is up and running and progressing cases I thought it would be a good time to refresh on the compliance
checks.

We will have am item on the agenda for the meeting to discuss and ensure everyone understands what is
expected etc.

Do bear in mind that a lot of what forms compliance (progression and timescales etc) feeds into a number
of your objectives so if you are failing compliance this could mean you fail to meet one or more objective.
Please note the first bullet below around file submission time — we currently have 15 working days to
submit a file into casework after the offender interview takes place, this area alone could loose you 10
points if you fall outside the 15 days.

If you have any questions please give me a shout.

Thanks

Andrew
POLO0118110
POL00118110

Andrew Wise

Security operations - North

From: Dave Posnett

Sent: 27 April 2012 11:44

To: Dave Pardoe; Graham C Ward; Jason G Collins; Keith Gilchrist; Steve Bradshaw; Robert Daily; Kevin Ryan;

Michael Stanway; Suzanne Winter; Andrew Wise; Allison Drake; Glyn Burrows; Jim Coney; Helen Dickinson; Sharron

L Jennings; Christopher G Knight

Subject: FW: Case Compliance

All,

The compliance checks on submitted offender interview case files will continue in 2012/2013.

Associated are all the supporting documents needed, which have been amended where appropriate.

I suggest these are referred to when you have time and/or when submitting an offender interview case file.

Some salient points and changes are summarised as follows, to take effect immediately where applicable;
* The timescales for submitting case files have increased from 12 working days to 15 working days (as a
maximum). This addresses the current lack of Security Managers, the impact on those assisting (extra travelling,
overnight stays, accrued TOIL, etc). This impact will continue for some time, even when new recruits are in post.
The increase to 15 working days (or 3 working weeks), coupled with continued use of the typing facility, is
considered fair in dealing with the current resource issues.
* Some scores have decreased and some have increased. Areas where there have been prevalent failings or
where it is considered that more importance or emphasis is needed have increased scores, whereas areas
deemed less significant have decreased scores. Please see Appendix 1 (Compliance Form) for all the relevant
scores available in future.

* All references to ‘Royal Mail’ have been replaced with ‘Post Office Ltd’. These include document references,
GS forms becoming POL forms and ‘Royal Mail Group Criminal Law Team’ becoming ‘Post Office Ltd Legal &
Compliance Team’.

* The Discipline Report template has been changed. Superfluous information for Contract Managers (e.g
Identification Code, HR printout at Appendix C, etc) has been removed. Also, areas of previous contention or
concern (such as ‘To be prosecuted by’, ‘Designated Prosecution Authority’, etc) has been removed. This is a
disciplinary report and no decisions have been made regarding any prosecution.

* The aim will again be to conduct a minimum of 2 compliance checks per individual and attain a 90% average
score across the team by year end. For info, the average score last year was 92.16%.

* Compliance checks will be lapsed for now and re-commence at the beginning of July. This will facilitate the
arrival of new recruits and any associated training, but will also provide some flexibility in managing workloads
for those impacted in the next couple of months. Casework will still continue to monitor the reporting timescales
to ensure we meet our stakeholder obligations.
POLO0118110
POL00118110

This communication has been sent out now to inform you in advance of the changes in compliance and provide you
with the information needed on re-commencement of the compliance checks.
Regards,

Dave Posnett
Accredited Financial Investigator
Security Operations Team

Post Office Ltd

Confidential Information

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.
