Royal Mail

Royal Mail Internal Information
Criminal Investigation Team

7.11 Suspension from Duty

Version 1.0 Final
May 2012

Review Date: May 2014

Ray Pratt
Head of Investigations Policy & Standards

Royal Mail Security

Mobile I i

POL00038437
POL00038437
Contents

Key Accountabilities
1. Introduction

2. The Suspension Process

3. Royal Mail Group Ltd Young Persons
4, Disciplinary Incidents

Change Control

Glossary

POL00038437
POL00038437

Noaar pro
Key Accountabilities

POL00038437
POL00038437

Who is accountable?

What do I have to do?

When do I have to do this?

Howdoldothis?

All members of Royal Mail

Security

Ensure you comply with these

Procedures

Ongoing

Be aware of the document

POL00038437
POL00038437

Suspension from Duty

« Introduction

1.1 These Procedures and Standards (P&S) deal with the appropriate action that should be taken should if an Investigator feels that following an
investigation, a member of Royal Mail Group Ltd (RMG Lid) staff should be suspended from duty. Suspension is viewed as a precautionary
measure whilst the case progresses and such action is almost invariably taken when the suspected offence is facilitated by the nature of the

employee's duties, for example a Postman stealing postal packets.

2. The Suspension Process

2.1. Authority to Suspend. Should an Investigator think itis appropriate to suspend a suspect, authority should be sought from an appropriate
manager. An appropriate manager is the unit manager, such as a Shift Manager or a Delivery Office Manager, within the unit concemed.
‘Should it not be practicable to obtain authority to suspend from a manager described above, then authority can be sought from any Line

Manager, preferably, within the same function as the suspect.

22 Should investigators not be able to contact any Line Manager, then they may, as an interim measure, suspend suspect offenders themselves.
if Investigators do suspend they should endeavour to inform the appropriate manager, of their actions, as soon as practicable. The

suspended person's Line Manager is responsible for informing the Human Resources Service Centre of the suspension.

2.3 Provisional Authority to Suspend. Should an Investigator anticipate difficulty in obtaining authority to suspend, (perhaps due to the operation
taking place in out of hours) then consideration should be given to obtaining “provisional” authority, from an appropriate manager, prior to

undertaking the operation.

2.4 Checks of official stocks or property. Whenever a member of RMG Lid staff is about to be suspended from duty his/her official property,
{including such things as surcharge tills), should be checked, if this has not already been done during the course of the enquiry. The local
manager who usually performs such checks should normally carry out this check. The check should be carried out in the presence of the
suspected offender but, if this is not practicable, it should be done in the presence of a union representative, but may be carried out in the

presence of an independent witness, should a union representative not be available.

25 Suspending the Suspect. The suspect should be informed that they are;
2.5.1 Being suspended on full pay.
2.5.2 Being suspended on the authority of ... (give the name of the person authorising the suspension).
25.3 — Notallowed to access official premises, unless it is to attend a pre arranged appointment, (for example with the conduct manager, a

union representative or Atos Healthcare). Then if on RMG Ltd premises they should be escorted off them.

26 — Recovery of Royal Mail Group Ltd Property. As part of the suspension process the Investigator should recover any official passes, badges,
keys or any other official property in possession of the suspected offender. This includes uniform, which should be handed to the relevant
Unit Manager, for storage as appropriate, pending the outcome of the disciplinary case. Should Investigators be unable to recover such

items then they should inform the relevant Unit Manager, so they can make the appropriate local arrangements to recover the property.

3. Royal Mail Group Ltd Young Persons

3.1. Royal Mail Group Ltd Young Persons (RMGYP). RMGYP are Royal Mail Group Ltd employees who have not reached their 18th birthday.
‘Should such a young person be suspended from duty, even if there is no specific risk to them, arrangements should be made to prevent
them going home alone after the suspension. if the RMGYP is less than 17 years old then they will have an appropriate adult with them so it
is acceptable for them to leave in the care of their appropriate adult. If there is not an appropriate adult present, then arrangements should be

made for the RMGYP to be taken to their home address and given into the care of a responsible adult.
32

44

POL00038437
POL00038437

Right to Privacy. Prior to arrival at the RMGYP's home address Investigators should ensure that the RMGYP is content with what they will tell
the responsible adult, bearing in mind their right to privacy. If the Investigator cannot take the RMGYP home personally then a responsible

local supervisor should be carefully instructed on how to carry out this task in a discrete and tactful manner.

Disciplinary Incidents

Itis possible that in the course of an enquiry, a breach of discipline not amounting to a criminal offence may be observed, or may come to
light, the nature of which is sufficiently serious to raise the question whether or not some employees should be suspended from duty. In these
cases the Investigator should report the facts orally (and if necessary followed up in a formal written report), to the subject's Line Manager. It
is for them to decide whether or not the individual should be suspended from duty. (Line Managers can only have access to recorded CCTV

images in discipline cases if they have the authority of the Director of Investigations.)
POL00038437
POL00038437

Change Control

Final

1.0

Ray Pratt

Michael F Matthews

May 2012

Internal

Authorisation

Security Ray Pratt May 2012

Distribution List

All Royal Mail Security via Security Sharepoint vt May 2012

Documentation History

va

Final

May 2012
May 2012

Document Change History

Mt Document Produced in Royal Mail Layout

POL00038437
POL00038437

Glossary

Pas Procedures and Standards

RMG Ltd Royal Mail Group Ltd
RMGYP. Royal Mail Group Ltd Young Person

Document Summary
If you have any queries please contact:

Mick F Matthews
Royal Mail Security
6A Eccleston St
LONDON

Swi LT

Postline:
TD:

Email

