Marilyn Benjamin

POL00055113
POL00055113

Page 1 of 2

From: Marilyn Benjamin on behalf of Jarnail A Singh
Sent: 28 July 2010 16:12

To: Post Office Security

Ce: John Longman

Subject: REGINA v SEEMA MISRA - GUILDFORD CROWN COURT - TRIAL

Attachments: image008.gif; image003.wmz

Thank you for forwarding Gareth Jenkins response of his meeting and discussions with the Defence
Expert.

Our view in respect of the access to the system in the Midlands and Chesterfield is that this is exactly the
same information or material they were seeking before and as they were told previously that if they want

disclosure of these items which we feel is not relevant that we are not prepared to disclose these and we
are under no obligation to grant them access as they require and if they wish they can make a Section 8

application to the Court. I confirm that I have accordingly written to them on these lines.

If you wish to discuss any aspect of the above please do not hesitate to contact me.

Jarnail Singh
Senior Lawyer
Criminal Law Division

From: John Longman
Sent: 27 July 2010 15:39
To: Jarnail A Singh

Subject: West Byfleet

Jarnail
This is the response that I have received from Penny following Issy Hogg’s e-mail.
I've had a discussion with Gareth.

It was agreed during the meeting between Gareth and Charles that Charles would provide notes reflecting
the discussion; Gareth has not yet received these.

His views on the email string are:

1. Access to system in Midlands: This was not something we discussed in detail. It would appear that
Charles is aware of a Post Office which is having issues similar to those which have resulted in
prosecution, but that there are currently no prosecutions in place. He would like to monitor exactly
what happens in this branch (probably with a video camera) and compare that with the system logs
(hoping to find a mismatchi). However the Postmaster is covered by confidentiality agreements,
which mean that this cannot be done with out permission of POL. I assume that this is a request to.
be able to do this. I'm also assuming that help would be required from Fujitsu in retrieving logs from
the system to compare with the video. NB this probably needs to be done quickly before migrating to
HNG-X. Charles’s first report refers to such a branch I believe. I've no idea where this postmaster
would stand in respect of any problems that they have had but which are not yet visible to POL, or in
respect of what they have already said to Charles.

2. Access to Chesterfield: Charles is still of the opinion that understanding how P&BA operate and in
particular how they identify errors and process them as Transaction Corrections may help his case.
’ve pointed out that anything in this area that could affect the accounts is already visible to him in the
Horizon logs and so I don't see that this is likely to be of help to him. However he would still like to
pursue this line of exploration.

3. System Change Requests: Basically, he was asking to look at all system faults. I suggested that as
we kept all testing and Live faults in the same system and that there were around 200,000 of them,
then this wasn’t going to get him far. He then suggested looking at system changes and would like to.
see all changes that have happened to the system. Again, I don't think this will help and I don't know
how practical it is for Fujitsu's Release Management to provide that. I think all we can do is ask the
question.

As already stated in my earlier e-mail to you, for point 1 I need to know from the defence specifically
which office in the midlands that they want to monitor and how they intend to monitor it.

28/07/2010
POL00055113
POL00055113

Page 2 of 2

For point 2 a visit to Chesterfield can be arranged but there are ten departments dealing with transaction corrections and it
would be helpful to know which specific transaction errors they wish to examine the process for.

As for point 3, I will ask Penny Thomas whether Fujitsu's Release Management team can provide the defence expert with
system fault data.

Could I ask you to clarify Points 1 & 2 with the defence so that I can see whether we can agree to their requests.
Regards
You Longman

Security Advisor
Post Office Ltd, National Security Tear

=)

Spread the word.
— LidfeViiie, sro.)

Confidential Information
This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain
confidential and privileged information. Any unauthorised review, use, disclosure or
distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by
reply email and destroy all copies of the original message.

28/07/2010
