POL00143037
POL00143037

Message

From: JMIdkiff @-anneywurer yr Ge rerenreyprewrry
Sent: 10/05/2012 18:20:28

To:

ce:

Subject: Re: Audit committee briefing

Attachments: 12 POL Year End Audit Committee Report_10 May_Clean.doc

Hi Sarah -

Thank you for the below - I will be sure to have a look through tomorrow as I completely understand your point about
finding it hard to spot errors after staring at it for too long!

In that respect, please find here our paper for your review =

Please let me know if you have any comments and/or queries by COB tomorrow as I will need to get all sorted to print
over the weekend for delivery to you Monday morning.

Just as an FYI, Lesley's team has seen and provided comments on the IT related sections which have all been
incorporated into the version you're seeing here.

I believe Asim has provided to you the Rep Letter and SAD, but if there is anything else you need, please shout.

I will give you a ring tomorrow to discuss Gamma as well.

Many thanks,
08 Jeremy Midkiff I Senior Manager I London Assurance
I I fe Ernst & Young LLP
#i] ERNST & YOUNG One More London Place, SEt AF London, United Kingdom
Office: + Fax { } imiakitef

Website: www.ey.com

Thank you for considering the environmental impact of printing emails.

From

To:
Date: 10/05/2012 18:09
Subject Audit committee briefing book and other papers

Hi Jeremy,

I attach a copy of our draft Audit Committee briefing book for your information. It's not perfect yet and we will be reviewing
internally tomorrow but thought it was worth sharing with you before it goes to the Audit Committee in final form. This is
based on the document that Royal Mail produce but it is the first time we have done it for POL. If you have any
observations of errors or improvements please let Kam and me know tomorrow or Monday and we can address them — all
quality control review comments are welcome as it gets hard to spot errors after a while!

Please could you send me the wording for the Rep letter for me to paste into the Board cover paper (including final SAD)
and a copy of your draft report for Chris and me to review tomorrow?
POL00143037
POL00143037

Also I could still do with a quick call on Gamma in relation to the Eagle discussions when you have a moment tomorrow.

Thanks and regards,
Sarah

Sarah Hall
Financial Controller

Please note that my office telephone number has changed

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,

you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540

LS henacnonnoacianoionaioiioiaiia aaaiaioaaaaacaaaioTattachment "POL Briefing Book 10-05-2012 DRAFT with
SH.pdf" deleted by Jeremy Midkiff/83363N/ICO/London/ErnstYoung/GB]

Capital Insights - the latest thinking from Ernst & Young on your Capital Agenda: investing through M&A transactions;
raising funds; and optimizing finances. Visit www.capitalinsights.info

This e-mail and any attachment are confidential and contain proprietary information, some or all of which may be legally
privileged. It is intended solely for the use of the individual or entity to which it is addressed. If you are not the intended
recipient, please notify the author immediately by telephone or by replying to this e-mail, and then delete all copies of the
e-mail on your system. If you are not the intended recipient, you must not use, disclose, distribute, copy, print or rely on
this e-mail.

Whilst we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that this e-mail and any attachment has been checked for viruses,
we cannot guarantee that they are virus free and we cannot accept liability for any damage sustained as a result of
software viruses. We would advise that you carry out your own virus checks, especially before opening an attachment.

Ernst & Young refers to the global organization of member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a
separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to
clients.

The UK firm Ernst & Young LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number
0C300001 and is a member practice of Ernst & Young Global. A list of members' names is available for inspection at 1
More London Place, London, SE1 2AF, the firm's principal place of business and its registered office.
