POL00297942
POL00297942

From: Alasdair Marnoch{,
Sent: Wed 24/07/2013 7:
To: Paula Vennells[f

Ce: Alice Perkins[é
Subject: Today
Paula

Thanks for setting up an invigorating day with and I enjoyed our discussion this evening.
A brief recap on today

- Chris - having got over his concerns about the last Board etc we had a positive conclusion with Chris saying he is up for
it and I reinforced the message that he has Board support but he needs to seize the moment and deliver. (he has an
excellent list of deliverables over the summer). I'll try and support as much as I can (without getting in thr way) and have
more conversations about the CFO transition over the coming weeks

- Fujitsu - he knows he has the lead and we discussed tactics/process to drive a harder bargain. Again will keep close to
support / challenge but ideal opportunity for him to stamp his authority on the PO

- Second Sight - very challenging but reassuring discussion with Susan/Alwen on the immediate priorities which I thought
were spot on and I believe we are focused and resourced appropriately. As we agreed i will pick up next week with
Angela/Susan on the much wider brief with stakeholders/ new processes and dealing with any process limitations
internally. I think the update to the Board should and can give strong reassurance on the first point but we need to be give
ourselves probably a bit more time to make sure the team have properly grasped all the other considerations and can
deliver a cogent message on the future plans. It is also likely that we will want to amend our policies in this area which
should be signed off vy the Board and could be reviewed by the Sept ARC and tabled at the Sept Board

We also briefly discussed a review by Internal Audit and its scope - distinguishing between reviewing current and future
policy and process to ensure compliance (they will do this v well) and the need to learn the key lessons quickly which in
large part come down to the actions of a small number of people. I suggest I talk to Alice about this and agree the best
way to handle it

Strategy - good discussion with Susan and reassured around our PMO capability but we agreed that I would review the
short term and medium term plans (5 weeks and 5 years) with S plus a small number of others to challenge and sense
check the thinking. S agrees we need to use the relative lull of August to catch up on thinking and planning so when folks
get back from holiday that's all done and we drive to the line on funding in parallel with getting into delivery mode (leader
tbc). Board update will reflect excellent progress on negotiations, agree any outstanding policy matters like trade body etc
and set expectations that the high level delivery plan will be available In sept

as you head off on hols I meant to say that overall today I was really encouraged by the work the team have been doing
and believe we are heading in the right direction on the various issues we are tackling - lots to do but going the right way.

Have good and very well deserved break.

A

Sent from my iPad
