POLO00096937
POL00096937

Message

From: Angela Van-Den-Bogerd I_ _ ___GRO__ _ _d
Sent: 17/08/2012 05:

To: Simon Baker

Subject: RE: Post Office cases

Hi Simon,

Could I see the letter regarding Mr Popov’s case please.

Thanks,
Angela

Angela Van Den Bogerd
Head of Network Services
Post Office Ltd

Ist Floor Admin, Swansea Mail Centre,
i SWANSEA, SAI [AA

Confidential Information:

This email message is for the sole use of the intended recipient(s) and may contain confidential and privileged information. Any
unauthorised review, use, disclosure or distribution is prohibited. If you are not the intended recipient please contact me by reply
email and destroy all copies of the original message.

From: Simon Baker

Sent: 16 August 2012 14:22

To: Alwen Lyons; Angela Van-Den-Bogerd; Chris Darvill; Jarnail A Singh; Lesley J Sewell; Rod Ismay; Simon Baker; Susan
Crichton

Cc: Chris Bhandari

Subject: FW: Post Office cases

All

Please note that the Mr. Popov’s case has been added into scope. I believe this might be the one concerning the comms
lines.

Chris, would you mind adding it to our spread sheet.

Thanks

Simon

From: WALKER, Janet I. weve GRO
Sent: 16 August 2012 13:12

To: Simon Baker

Cc: Ian Henderson; 'Ron Warmington’
Subject: Post Office cases

Dear Simon,

POL-0096520
POLO00096937
POL00096937

Please find attached a scan of a letter we have received from Stephen Hammond MP, enclosing details of his
constituent, Mr Popov’s case.

I will add this to my list, and would be grateful if you would do the same.

Kind regards
Janet

Janet Walker

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

From: Simon Baker {
Sent: 12 August 2012 14:10
To: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: RE: Post Office cases

Janet
Thank you for the details on the case below.
In terms of copying Second Sight, I am happy for you to copy Ron and Ian into these messages.

Kind Regards,
Simon

From: ARBUTHNOT, Jame:
Sent: 08 August 2012 08:47
To: Simon Baker

Subject: FW: Post Office cases

Hi Simon,
fam not sure whether you have these details, but here is another case for you.

Would you like me to copy Ron and lan from 2" Sight in on these emails regarding cases, or do you prefer that they are
streamed via your office?

Kind regards

Janet

Janet Walker

POL-0096520
Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot
MP for North East Hampshire

House of Commons

London SW1A OAA

www.jamesarbuthnot.com

From: LORD, Jonathan

Sent: 07 August 2012 15:02
To: ARBUTHNOT, James
Subject: RE: Post Office cases

Dear James,

POLO00096937
POL00096937

i think I first contacted you about her case in October 2010, but my constituent Mrs Seema Misra was convicted by
Guildford Crown Court of theft on 21" October 2010. She was Sub Postmistress at the West Byfleet Post Office.

Mrs Misra’s contact details have since changed and she now lives a’ 3
She is happy for her details to be passed on to the Post Office for investigation. I’d be very grateful if you could let
me know whether you are happy to do this.

I'd like to express, once again, my gratitude for your efforts in getting this matter investigated.

Yours ever,
Jonathan

Jonathan Lord MP
Member of Parliament for Woking

“Fis comail is confide

ial to the intended recipient. If you have received it in error, please notify the sender and delete it from your system. Any unauthorised use,

disclosure, or copying is not permitted. This e-mail has been checked for viruses, but no liability is accepted for any damage caused by any virus transmitted by this e-

mail.

From: ARBUTHNOT, James
Sent: 18 July 2012 12:24

To: MEALE, Alan; DUNCAN, Alan; BRIDGEN, Andrew; BROOKE, Annette; BURNS, Simon; CAMPBELL, Menzies;

DJANOGLY, Jonathan; DJANOGLY, Jonathan (2nd Mailbox); DRAX, Richard; GARNIER, Edward; HAVARD, Dai; HEPBURN,
Stephen; JONES, David; KNIGHT, Gregory; LETWIN, Oliver; LORD, Jonathan; LUMLEY, Karen; MILTON, Anne; MUNT,
Tessa; BARRON, Kevin; MUNT, Tessa (2nd Mailbox); OSBORNE, George; RUTLEY, David; STUART, Graham; TYRIE,
Andrew; WALLACE, Ben; WOOD, Mike; WOLLASTON, Sarah; WOLLASTON, Sarah (2nd Mailbox); PATEL, Priti; SIMPSON,
Keith; STEWART, Iain; WILLOTT, Jenny; WRIGHT, Iain; FLYNN, Paul; BROWN, Nick; BYLES, Dan; CLARK, Greg;
CRAUSBY, David; ELLMAN, Louise; JACKSON, Glenda; HERBERT, Nick; GLINDON, Mary; NEWMARK, Brooks; FREEMAN,

George; FREEMAN, George (2nd Mailbox); LEIGH, Edward

Cc: BUCKLAND, Lisa
Subject: Post Office cases

Dear Colleague,

POL-0096520
POLO00096937
POL00096937

I would like to update you with regard to the SubPostmasters issue about which you have previously contacted
me. The last time I was in touch we were discussing how the matter might be resolved with senior
management at the Post Office. I suggested to them that they should put in place forensic accountants who
would investigate the cases.

Recently, MPs Andrew Bridgen, Tessa Munt, Mike Wood, Mary Glindon, a representative from Edward Garnier’s
office, and I met two consultants from 2" Sight, a forensic accountancy company. We were satisfied that they
were objective and had the required experience to take these cases on.

Nevertheless we felt it important to gain the trust and endorsement of SubPostmasters, and one way of doing
that was through the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance. Whilst we did not believe that the Alliance should
have a power of veto, their acceptance of the way the investigations would be conducted, and of the people
who would conduct them, would be of considerable value. I therefore held a subsequent meeting with the two
consultants from 2" Sight, with the head of the Alliance, and with a further forensic accountant whom the
head of the Alliance brought with him.

I believe we are approaching a consensus. The consultants from 24 Sight offered that their investigations
should be checked by a forensic accountant to be nominated by the Alliance; the Post Office has agreed not
just to this, but to funding it. I believe this tends to confirm that the Post Office is genuinely keen to resolve
this matter in an open and transparent way.

The process is therefore that 2"¢ Sight will conduct an initial investigation of a selected number of cases, from
which they will see if conclusions can be drawn that lead to further work being required.

But it is important that we do not get ahead of ourselves at this stage. It is already clear that some individuals
are expecting that a very wide-ranging and expensive investigation into the computer code behind the Horizon
system will take place. This is not at the moment what is envisaged. It may turn out to be necessary, but the
initial investigations will show whether this is so.

Iam taking a very cautious approach when discussing this with any of my constituents. I do not know what
the investigations will show, nor can I promise them that the errors they tell me lie solely with the Horizon
system necessarily do. We must wait and see what initial cases reveal, and so I am counselling patience, and
seeking their trust.

I have said that I will pass on details of cases to the Post Office, as and when they come to me from other
MPs. It is essential that if you wish to pass me details, you ensure that your constituent knows that their
details will be revealed to the Post Office. There is no anonymity offered. It may be that in the future, we ask
the Post Office in specific cases to offer immunity, but I suggest we cross that bridge when we come to it. I
prefer at the moment to take things step by step.

I hope all this sounds satisfactory to you. My office will be happy to help if any queries arise at this stage.

Yours ever
James

Office of the Rt Hon James Arbuthnot, MP
House of Commons
London SW 1A 0AA

www jamesarbuthnet.com

POL-0096520
POLO00096937
POL00096937

This email and any attachments are confidential and intended for the addressee only. If you are not the named recipient,
you must not use, disclose, reproduce, copy or distribute the contents of this communication. If you have received this in
error, please contact the sender and then delete this email from your system.

ROYAL MAIL GROUP LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 100 VICTORIA EMBANKMENT, LONDON EC4Y
OHQ with the registered company number 04138203

POST OFFICE LIMITED registered in England and Wales at 148 OLD STREET, LONDON EC1V 9HQ with the registered
company number 02154540

rere ree rarer cree rer tec teeter rec tettrettr crac eer tere tec rer ter

POL-0096520
