POLICY DOCUMENT
Advertising Vacancies
During Network Transformation.

Reference information

Policy type I Policy
Ref WP36 - Contractual - Advertising vacancies during Network
Transformation.
Date 19/04/2013
Status Final
Author Steve Utting, Contract and Policy Advisor.
Owner Paul Inwood, Agents Contract and Policy Development
Manager.
Policy type I Contractual.
Version 19/04/2013.
authorisati
on date
Review 19th October 2013.
Date
Expiry 31st March 2015.
Date
Key Angela Van Den Bogerd, Regional Managers, Area Managers,
stakeholde I Field Change Advisors, Lin Norbury, John Breeden, Contract
rs Advisors, Contract Admin Team, Steve Northey, Kjetil
Fugelstad, Ketul Patel, Nick Beal, Neil Ennis, Tracy Marshall,
Chris Howard.
Approval
Business Tracy Marshall, Lin Norbury, John Breeden, Various
input Chris Howard, Stewart Barclay, Denise Reid,
Jessica Madron,
Sabrina Jethwa.
Assurance I Paul Inwood, Agents Contract and Policy 19/4/2013
Development Manager.
Authorised I Steve Utting, Contract and Policy Advisor. 19/4/2013

Version control

Final

Final version issued to distribution list 19/4/2013
members.

Page 1 of 7

POL00005583
POL00005583

F1/158/1
POL00005583
POL00005583

SUBJECT: Advertising Branch Vacancies during Network
Transformation.

PART 1

1.0 Purpose

This Policy Change document explains how Post Office Ltd will handle and
advertise vacancies for new and legacy contracts during the lifetime of the
Network Transformation (NT) programme; according to the circumstances
of the vacancy. It discusses model change and how such changes will be
advertised.

This document is issued to replace policy information previously supplied in
ACC 12/09 and updated in ACC 08/11 which was specific to an operator's
termination of contract or resignation to avoid that outcome during the
pilot stages of Network Transformation. It ensures that Post Office Ltd can
work towards the implementation of Local Post Office and Main Post Office
operating models during the Network Transformation programme, where
appropriate.

2.0 Glossary

Word/term Definition

‘At’, ‘Near’ or I Where the vacancy will be advertised. ‘At’

‘At or Near’. means at the current premises, ‘Near’ means at
other premises in the community and ‘At or Near’
allows for either.

ACC Agency Changes Communiqué. A document
issued to advise Post Office Ltd policy to
stakeholders involved in the deployment of
operators contracts.

BAU Business as Usual.
Commercial This is where the outgoing operator has agreed
Transfer the commercial sale of their premise and or retail

business to. another party; subject to their
acceptance by Post Office Ltd.

DF Discretionary Fund

Model The type of operating model and contract that
Post Office Ltd would wish to implement at
vacancy.

Modelling This is the system that Post Office Ltd uses to

determine which is the most appropriate type of
model to implement at the location according to
the Network Transformation decision manual.
NT Network Transformation

Operator Refers to the term Subpostmaster, Agent,

F1/158/2
POL00005583
POL00005583

Operator or Franchisee.

Review Panel I This is a panel of Post Office Ltd and National
Federation of Subpostmasters personnel who will
consider representations from operators
regarding the model determined for their branch
during a commercial transfer.

Subpostmast I The holder of an SPSO Contract and includes the

er term Subpostmistress.

Vacancy This follows an action that requires Post Office
Ltd to find a new operator to run a Post Office®
branch.

3.0 Background

ACC 12/09 and ACC 08/11 set out Post Office Ltd’s policy during the pilot
stages of NT to process vacancies at branches following the summary
termination of an operator’s contract, an operator’s resignation to avoid
termination of contract or abandonment of service.

These ACCs did not provide advice on business policy for any of the other
types of vacancy that Post Office Ltd handle during the pilot stages of NT as
these continued to be handled in line with BAU processes.

Also these ACCs did not provide policy guidance for dealing with branches
that did not fall within the scope of the Local Post Office model; for example
Main Post Office branch, Community Subpostmaster, Satellite, Restricted
Hours or Outreach within the communities it serves as these contract
models had their own business as usual processes.

Historically, where an operator has resigned, and the premises have been
made available, vacancies have been advertised ‘At’ existing premises, or
not advertised at all as the agent has already found a buyer for their
ancillary business. In cases where we have not allowed a commercial
transfer by closing or relocating the Post Office branch, payments from the
Discretionary Fund (DF) have been made.

For clarification; cases where the operators contract has been summarily
terminated, or where they had resigned in order to avoid that outcome
would not be treated in this way i.e. we have taken a more flexible
approach to who is appointed, and where by advertising the vacancy as ‘At
or Near’, with no call on the DF.

This document is issued to replace policy information that was previously
supplied in ACC 12/09 and updated in ACC 08/11 and will become Post
Office Ltd policy from launch through to the end of the NT programme in
March 2015. It ensures that Post Office Ltd can work towards the

F1/158/3
POL00005583
POL00005583

implementation of Local Post Office and Main Post Office operating models,
where appropriate, during the Network Transformation programme and
supports Post Office Ltd’s policy that all branch vacancies are initially
passed to the Network Transformation Team.

In all cases where Post Office Ltd has a vacancy the Network
Transformation Team will model the branch in line with the requirements of
the Network Transformation Decision Manual to determine Post Office Ltd’s
requirements for the vacancy and pass this to the relevant team, i.e
Contract Admin Team, Agency Network Change, Network Transformation
Implementation Team. Post Office Ltd teams will then determine how to
advertise the vacancy and progress the case based.on the criteria detailed
in Documents A and B at Section 7.

When passing a vacancy notification to the Network Transformation Team it
is important to detail the reasons for the vacancy and whether the
premises continue to be available for Post Office Ltd use. Post Office Ltd
teams can include the following wording in letters when investigating
whether the premises remain available:

“Post Office Ltd will need to assess what to do in respect of the vacancy
that has been created. Post Office Ltd will conduct a review of service
provision in the area to ensure that Post Office® services are provided by
the most appropriate means available to us.

It would assist us in our task of reviewing the provision of Post Office®
services in the locality if you could advise us of your intentions regarding
the provision of your premises. “

To ensure a commercial transfer on the current operating model e.g.
Subpostmaster; the outgoing operator will need to provide evidence to Post
Office Ltd that they were actively marketing their business prior to the 1*
April 2012 and Post Office Ltd must receive an application from a
prospective applicant before midnight on the 30 June 2013 (extended
from 31* December 2012 and 31* March 2013). Applications that do not
meet these criteria will transfer on to the appropriate operating model;
however the outgoing operator will have the opportunity to make a
representation regarding this decision to the Review Panel.

It has been agreed that in all cases where an existing operator has already
secured a buyer it is up to the operator to decide whether they want Post
Office Ltd to advertise the vacancy for a 4 week period. If the agent does
not wish Post Office Ltd to advertise the vacancy for 4 weeks then Post
Office Ltd will not advertise the vacancy.

4.0 Applicability

F1/158/4
POL00005583
POL00005583

The contents of this policy must be implemented by all Post Office Ltd
teams involved with the handling of vacancies at Post Office branches and
the implementation of them.

5.0 Related policies

1 Family Transfers (ACC 01/2011)

2 Vacancies at Mailwork branches. (ACC06/2011)
-3 Network Transformation Recruitment Process
4 Post Office Ltd Recruitment Process

For the avoidance of doubt, and except where expressly communicated,
these polices remain unaffected by Network Transformation

F1/158/5
POL00005583
POL00005583

PART 2

6.0

Implementation procedures

6.1

6.2

6.3

6.4

Document owners, process owners and IRIS owners should ensure
that all standard letters, documents, processes and advertising are
updated to reflect the requirements of this policy. This will include
acknowledgement of resignations, letters advising of termination of
contract, call scripts regarding resignation at branches and external
advertising of branch vacancies.

Document A in Section 7 illustrates the advertising policy for
commercial transfers and Network Transformation volunteers for
conversion during the duration of the Network Transformation
Programme.

Document B in Section 7 illustrates the branch advertising approach
by operating model for the scenarios not included in Document A.
Columns three and four are the contract held by the operator for
whom the ‘Event’ in column two is relevant. This table includes some
of the less frequent cases that Post Office Ltd teams may deal with

Document C in Section 7 illustrates the basic process to follow for
vacancies during the Network Transformation Programme and should
be used alongside the processes used within the Network
Transformation processes.

Documents

Guidance chart for how to advertise the
vacancy in the case of a commercial evecure spent
transfer or a Network Transformation conser worse
volunteer for conversion.

Guidance chart for how to advertise all
types of vacancy by contract and vacancy

type.

Flowchart illustrating the process to follow
for vacancies during the Network
Transformation Program.

F1/158/6
POL00005583
POL00005583

8.0 Further information and Contact Details
Further information about this policy can be obtained from:

Steve Utting
Contract and Policy Advisor, Post Office Ltd.

F1/158/7
