POL00144659
POL00144659

This DRAFT document contains information relating to Post Office Limited. It is intended for discussion
purposes only for the named recipients only and should not be disseminated further.

Follow Up Review of Key System

POLSAP Controls in POLSAP

System

Controls ‘eam Post Office Limited

Assurance Review

Draft Report: AR 12/037b May 2013

A REE A EE AT EAE Internal Audit & Risk Management ERNST EU NASSAU EOS EON US RESETS
POL00144659
POL00144659

Context and Objectives

Post Office Limited (POL) customer transactions are captured through the Horizon Electronic Point of Sale equipment in branches, with daily summaries transmitted
to the central accounting system, POLSAP. The translation process between the two systems is enabled by SAP Middleware. The POLSAP system was implemented in
2005/06 and contains functionality to calculate branch balances (cash, stocks, suspense, debtors and creditors) and to settle client balances.

The objective of our review was to assess the degree to which the eleven recommended actions raised in our September 2012 ‘Review of Key System Controls in
POLSAP’ (report reference AR12/037) have been implemented.

Key Findings and Conclusion

Eight of the eleven recommended actions have been implemented. Three areas remain that require further input from management to ensure that the
recommended actions have been fully implemented, or the current risk accepted, specifically:

Transaction Data — As Wincor are being replaced with NCR for the Post & Go contract, consider whether the original action to draft and agree Service Level
Agreements (‘SLAs’) between POL and Wincor should be completed for the remaining duration of the current Wincor contract.. Furthermore management should
ensure the new NCR service contract includes appropriate SLAs for the Post & Go replacement service .

Access to software - Complete the review of POLSAP user access in POL FSC. Remove any user accounts and access assignments that are no longer required in the

application with immediate effect.

Change Management — POL management should consider whether, under the current structure of POLSAP and the current change process, an end-to-end ‘overseer’
of all or some critical types of changes is required to mitigate the risk of changes not following the established processes .

Control Environment Rating: Recommended Actions Partially Implemented

Management Response

RH AR EES RR YE REAR Internal Audit & Risk Management ERNST NAO ROSEN SRDS E
Confidential Page 2 of 7
ummary

POL00144659

POL00144659

The summary findings from our review are noted below, showing the status of implementation of recommended actions as at 1 May 2013.

Recommended Action

Remediation

Work Performed

Findings

date

the accuracy and completeness of the
interfaces between Paystation,
Post&Go and POLSAP to appropriate
members of staff.

Priority 2

Steve Beddoe

with the Service Support team.

We reviewed personnel roles for Paystation,
Post&Go and POLSAP interface monitoring.

1 Perform a review of master data Jan 13 We obtained evidence of the FSC user access Evidence was obtained showing that master
profiles that provide access to create, review and confirmed that user access had data user reviews were performed in Dec
modify and remove master data in been approved. 2012 for Supply Chain and in April 2013 for
the Supply Chain and FSC teams and FSC.
include this within the annual review We obtained evidence of the Supply Chain
of user access scheduled for Q3 user access review and confirmed that user

Complete
2012/13. access had been approved.
Priority 2
Mark Wardle
2 Assign responsibility for monitoring Sept 12 We obtained an update through discussion Since September 2012 these duties have been

split between three staff members who are
now responsible for monitoring interfaces and
exceptions on each system.

These staff are based in Cortonwood, Dearne
in the Service Management team and were all
identified while on site to be performing the
roles required.

Complete

Rating:

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 3 of 7
Recommended Action

Remediation
date

ummary Fin

Work Performed

POL00144659

POL00144659

Findings

Draft and agree service level agreements
between POL and Wincor for the timely
resolution of transaction data errors during
the interfaces between Paystation,
Post&Go and POLSAP.

Priority 2

Steve Beddoe

We discussed with Helen Love and Sharon
Brearley the current status of Wincor SLA
development.

We reviewed the Paystation and Post&Go
Application Interface Specifications.

Note: Wincor are the application vendor for
Post&Go only. Ingenico are the vendor for
Paystation.

Change Implemented:

A fix had been implemented that resolved legacy
transactional data transfer failures for around 780 of
the approximately 800 data issues, thereby clearing
the backlog.

SLA

No contractual SLA is in place between POL and
Wincor. The Wincor contract is being terminated in
December 2013 to be replaced by NCR. SLAs have
therefore not been implemented within the Wincor
contract, but will be introduced for the new NCR
service.

On-going — Actions #1 and #2 Raised.

to software is re-circulated to key
personnel who are responsible for
managing this process.

Priority 2

Mark Wardle

of access management process to the
relevant team members.

We reviewed the distribution list
containing those responsible for managing
the process.

4 Review, define and prioritise which POLSAP Feb 13 I We reviewed confirmations that batch job _I The review has been performed by Service
batch jobs should be reported to POL by listings have been reviewed and obtained Management. Service Management confirmed with
Fujitsu on a regular basis. listings of batch jobs required to be Supply Chain and FSC that the batch jobs reported on
reported out of hours. are effective.
Priority 2
Complete
Steve Beddoe
5 I Ensure that the process to manage access Dec-12 I We reviewed evidence of the recirculation

The process has been recirculated and reinforced to
all those stakeholders required.

Complete

Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 4 of 7
ummary Fin

POL00144659

POL00144659

Remediation

Recommended Action Ls Work Performed Findings
Include a review of POLSAP user access in Jan-13 We obtained evidence of the Supply Chain The Supply Chain , Steria and Fujitsu user
POL FSC, Supply Chain, Steria and Fujitsu user access review. access reviews have all been completed. In
within the review scheduled for Q3 2012/13. addition, a Supply Chain review is now
We requested the FSC user access review. :
Remove any user accounts and access 4 " . scheduled every quarter and ISMF meetings
nena that are ie toneer required in We obtained the Steria and Fujitsu monthly record Steria and Fujitsu user changes each
}e application immediately. privileged and semi-annual full user access month.
Priority 2 review documentation. However, the FSC review has not yet been
completed due to issues with user licensing
Mark Pearce - ae
costs taking priority.
Partially complete — Action #3 Raised.
Review the process for identifying and taking Mar-13 We reviewed Risk & Compliance Committee The evidence reviewed confirmed that the risk
action on POLSAP user accounts where the (‘R&CC’) meeting minutes from 26 November I associated with this action has been formally
user has left the business. Consider disabling, 2012 to confirm the status of the action to accepted within the R&CC meeting on 26
accounts automatically for user accounts review risks to be accepted and endorsed by November 2012.
that have not logged in for a defined numberI the R&CC.
of days. Complete
We reviewed Paper Fourteen - EY
Priority 2 Management Letter Update RCC Nov 12 v2
Appendix B and observed reference to
Mark Pearce acceptance of the risk of leavers accounts
remaining open.
Assign an owner to be responsible for the Jan 13 We obtained an update through discussion The role of end-to-end change management
end-to-end POLSAP change management with Mark Pearce and Andy Jones. has not yet been implemented as per the
process for all functional and role changes . action. There has been work to introduce a
within the system. We reviewed the POL Change management formalised Change Management Policy
Priority 2 policy. encompassing all processes for change within
riori
y POLSAP, however, no single owner has been
Andy Jones identified for the entire process.
Internal Audit & Risk Management) °®°!"Gssastion ted Raised

Confidential

POL00144659

POL00144659

ummary Findings (continued)

Recommended Action

For POLSAP changes that require user
acceptance testing ensure that these are
routed to the POLSAP testing team.

Remediation
date

Work Performed

We obtained an update through discussion
with Zoe Caddick and Andy Jones.

We reviewed on screen the “CC Audience List”

Findings

All changes made via supplier generated
channels for POLSAP are routed via Zoe
Caddick, and these are all now distributed to
the POLSAP testing team through the

ensure that the scope includes all areas of
the application that POL determines as
priority for review. Document the results of
the third party user access reviews within the
minutes of the Information Security
Management Forum.

Priority 2

Dave King

privileged and semi-annual full user access
review documentation.

Priority 2 the distribution list for all vendor initiated epee ge
distribution listing.
POLSAP changes.
Zoe Caddick
Complete.

10 I Complete the review of transactions to Jan 13 We reviewed confirmations that transaction Evidence was obtained that transactions were
monitor for processing capacity to ensure monitoring has been reviewed and confirmedI reviewed by Service Management. Sid Hadadi
that the list of monitored transactions is up with relevant stakeholders. (Supply Chain) and Mark Wardle (FSC) were
to date and relevant. consulted and an updated list of the top 7

woe transactions is now monitored by Service
Priority 2 . A
Management on a daily basis.
Steve Beddoe
Complete.
11 I Review third party user access reviews to Jan 13 We obtained the Steria and Fujitsu monthly ISMF meetings record Steria and Fujitsu user

changes each month, as well as a bi-annual full
user access review of these users

Complete

RAP RATED RE TEN EINECS
Confidential

Internal Audit & Risk Management

Page 6 of 7
POL00144659
POL00144659

eed Ac

ns

The following actions have been agreed with management to address the remaining open recommendations from the original report:
Transaction Data

1.Consider whether the original action should be completed for the current Wincor contract, to draft and agree SLAs between POL and Wincor. (Rod Ismay? —
Finance — Date and owner TBC).

2.Ensure the NCR service contract includes SLAs for the Post&Go replacement service (Rod Ismay? — Finance — Date and owner TBC).
Access to software

3.Complete the review of POLSAP user access in POL FSC. Remove any user accounts and access assignments that are no longer required in the application with
immediate effect. (July 2013 - Mark Wardle).

Change Management

4.POL management to consider whether, under the current structure of POLSAP and the current change process, an end-to-end ‘overseer’ of all or some critical
types of changes is required to mitigate the risk of changes not following the established processes. (Andy Jones — Date and owner TBC).

esate 22 SSO 55 5 al

Susan Barton, Strategy Director Derek K Foster, Internal Audit & Risk Management Director, RMG
Susan Crichton, Legal and Compliance Director Justin Thornton, Head of Risk and Assurance, RMG
Christopher Day, Chief Financial Officer Ernst & Young, External Auditors.

Kevin Gilliand, Network and Sales Director
Andy J Jones, Quality and Standards Manager
Mark R Pearce, Head of Information Security
Lesley J Sewell, Chief Information Officer
Paula Vennells, Chief Executive

Malcolm Zack, Head of Internal Audit

RH AR EES RR YE REAR Internal Audit & Risk Management ERNST UA AOS EOS EON USES
Confidential Page 7 of 7
