POL00044777
POL00044777

Witness Statement

(CJ Act 1967, s9; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a)
and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r 70)

Statement of Glen Chester

Age if under 18 Over 18 (If over 18 insert ‘over 18")

This statement (consisting of 2 pages each signed by me) is true to the best of my knowledge and belief
and I make it knowing that, if it is tendered in evidence, I shall be liable to prosecution if I have wilfully
stated in it anything which I know to be false or do not believe true.

Datedthe 71" dayof March 2009

Signature G Chester

lam employed by Post Office Ltd part of the Royal Mail Group as a Contracts Advisor. I have
worked for the Post Office® for 28 years, of which the last 3 years or so has been as Contracts
Advisor. My responsibilities include the consistent deployment of all agency policies and
procedures relating to the contract for services of Sub- Postmasters, within a defined
geographical area. Furthermore, I advise Business Development Managers and other
appropriate sections and business units, of the various conditions of the Sub-Postmaster’s
contract. Sub-Postmasters are not employees of the Post Office®, but operate under a contract
to provide'services on behalf of Post Office Ltd. Sub-Postmasters usually locate the actual Post
Office in premises in which they also run a private business. Under the terms of the contract,
Sub-Postmasters have sole responsibility for all stock and cash, and for all daily and weekly
accounting and administration in respect of the Post Office®. From records held I could state
Mr Julian Wilson was the Sub-Postmaster at, Astwood Bank Post Office from 7 November
2002 to 11" September 2008, when his contract for services was suspended. The records to
which I refer in this statement form part of the records telating to the business of Post Office
Ltd and were compiled during the ordinary course of business, from information supplied by
Persons who have, or may reasonably be supposed to have, Personal knowledge of the matter
dealt with in the information supplied, but are unlikely to have any recollection of the
information. As part of the Contract signed by the Sub-Postmaster prior to appointment,
section 12 specifically deals with the responsibilities the Sub-Postmaster has, for the Post
Office cash and stock supplied to him/her by the Post Office to run the office. The Sub-

Signature G. Chester Signature witnessed by

©5011 (Side A) Version 3.0 11/02

, @)
POL00044777
POL00044777

Witness Statement
(CJ Act 1967, s9; MC Act 1980, ss 5A(3)(a) and 5B, MC Rules 1981, r70)

Continuation of statement of Glen Chester

Postmaster is ultimately responsible for any actions taken by staff employed by him/her in
relation to carrying out Post Office duties which result in the loss/theft of Post Office cash or
stock, any such resulting loss must be made good to the Post Office immediately by the Sub
Postmaster regardless of who within their employment caused the loss. The contract also
provides guidance as to how Post Office funds should be handled especially if the Sub
Postmaster has within the same site another business. If this is the case the two Businesses
must be run independently of each other and cash or stock supplied specifically for Post Office
Purposes remains the property of the Post Office and under no circumstances can cash from
the Post Office side of the business be used for any private business or personal use by the Sub
Postmaster. In the course of running the business, whether it be dual businesses under the one
roof or just a Sub Post Office at the site, ali utility bills, rent payments or any other business
related bills including personal bills pertaining to the Sub-Postmaster must be paid for by the
Sub-Postmaster either from the remuneration paid to him/her by the Post Office or from their
own personal funds, on no account should Post Office funds be used to pay such bills. There is
no facility for ‘credit’ at the Post Office® and therefore all purchases from the Post Office® till,
by both the Postmaster or customers, must be paid for at the time and the amount of the sale
transacted via the Post Office® HORIZON computer system. The Sub Postmaster is also
responsible for ensuring that accounts of all stock and cash entrusted to him/her by Post Office
Ltd are kept in the form prescribed by Post Office Ltd and that proper accounting practices are
adhered to in line with Post Office Ltd procedures. I now produce a copy from Section 12 of the

Sub Postmasters contract as GC/01.

Signature G. Chester Signature witnessed by

csot1A Version 3.0 11/02

. Cy)
