‘Skip to content

RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454

Q

PRESS RELEASE - 7 JULY 2013 23:00

Post Office statement on findings of interim report
into Horizon computer system

O00

- The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim
report into alleged problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to record transactions in

its branch network.

The Post Office today issued the following statement in response to the publication of an interim report
into alleged problems with the Horizon computer system, which is used to record transactions in its
branch network,

The report is being published by an extemal firm, Second Sight, who were commissioned by the Post
Office last year. It confirms that no system wide problems have been found in relation to the Horizon
software, but suggests that the Post Office should examine its support and training processes for sub-
postmasters.

Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells said:

"We commissioned this independent review to address concerns that have been raised about the
Horizon system and we welcome the broad thrust of the interim findings.
‘Skip to content

RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454

"The Post Office is committed to supporting its people and improving the way we do so. The interim
review makes clear that the Horizon computer system and its supporting processes function effectively
across our network. As the review notes, it is used by around 68,000 people in more than 11,500
branches, successfully processing more than six million transactions every day. The review underlines
our cause for confidence in the overall system.

“It does however raise questions about the training and support we have offered to some sub-
postmasters and we are determined to address these issues.

"The people who work in the post office network in communities across the country are the lifeblood of

our business and we take our responsibilities to them very seriously.

"We therefore regret very much if any sub-postmaster feels that our standards of support or training
have not met their needs, and we are grateful to James Arbuthnot MP and the Justice for Sub-
postmasters Alliance (JFSA) for raising these issues with us.

"In many of these cases I am confident that steps have already been taken which have improved
support and training but we are always open to feedback and insights from sub-postmasters, So we
will make further improvements in this area and take better account of individual requirements and

circumstances going forward."

The Post Office is proposing to respond to the Second Sight report with three new initiatives aimed at
addressing the issues raised, improving future processes and examining potential structural changes

to support sub-postmasters:

1. The creation of a working party to work collaboratively to complete the review of cases started by
Second Sight last year. This would examine the themes identified by Second Sight and consider all
cases brought forward by the JFSA and MPs, together with any new themes which emerge from these
cases. The JFSA have been invited to join this working party.

2. Areview chaired by an independent figure to determine how an independent safety net might be
introduced to adjudicate in disputed cases in the future. Again the JFSA and other stakeholders will be

invited to take part in this process.

3. Anew Branch User Forum to provide a way for sub-postmasters and others to raise issues and
insights around business processes, training and support, directly feeding into the organisation's
thinking at the highest level. A key task for this forum will be to review support processes and training
to ensure they meet the standards expected of the Post Office.

Ms Vennells added: "We have an obligation to protect public money, including investigating suspected
wrongdoing. However, we hope the action we are already taking and these additional proposals to
work collaboratively with the JFSA and sub-postmasters demonstrate our commitment to improving
the way we support all those who work in our unrivalled branch network."

View Horizon Interim report
RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454

Contact - Ruth Barker

Categories

Corporate

About the Post Office

The Post Office (Post Office Limited) has an unrivalled national network of over 11,500 branches
across the UK, more than all the high street banks combined, and sits at the heart of communities in
Northern Ireland, Scotland, Wales and England. The Post Office has made a commitment to
maintaining its network of branches at its current size and reach. It provides around 170 different
products and services spanning financial services including savings, insurance, loans, mortgages and
credit cards; Government services; telephony; foreign currency; travel insurance and mail services.

The Post Office serves over 17 million customers a week and a third of small businesses. Some

99.7% of the total population live within three miles of a post office and over 97% live with one mile of

a post office. For many rural communi} flce is the only retail outlet. Post Offices

branches remain highly valued and truste al point of many communities. For more

information, visit http://www.postoffice.co.uk/.

Please note the Press Office team can only deal with enquiries from the media. Unfortunately they do

Contacts

@

Post Office Press Office

PRESS CONTACT

Please note this line is strictly for the Post Office Media enquiries, not Royal Mail enquiries, Royal Mail are
responsible for the delivery of letters and parcels as well as stamps

2
g
B
8
3S

‘Skip to content
‘Skip to content

Karim Aziz

PRESS CONTACT

Head of Media Relations

Emma Hancock

PRESS CONTACT

Senior PR & Cam
Emma.Hancock(, GRO

Sheila Tapster

PRESS CONTACT

Press Officer

x

RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454
RLIT0000454

Welcome to the Post Office Media Centre, our online resource
for news, information, photos and footage for journalists across
the UK.

The Post Office has over 11,500 branches across the UK, 97% of these are run with retail partners on an agency or franchise
basis. 99.7% of the population live within 3 miles of a Post Office and 93% live within 1 mile. Along with a significant online
business, we are the biggest retail network in the UK, with more branches than all the banks and building societies
combined.

@

mynewsdesk

Try Mynewsdesk
For journalists
Find more stories
Log in
