RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Modernise or decline

Policies to maintain the universal postal service
in the United Kingdom.

16 December 2008

An independent review of the UK postal services sector
Richard Hooper CBE I Dame Deirdre Hutton I lan R Smith

Cm 7529 £26.60
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Modernise or decline

Policies to maintain the universal postal service
in the United Kingdom.

16 December 2008

An independent review of the UK postal services sector
Richard Hooper CBE I Dame Deirdre Hutton I lan R Smith

Cm 7529 £26.60
© Crown Copyright 2008

The text in this document (excluding the Royal Arms and other departmental or agency logos) may be
reproduced free of charge in any format or medium providing it is reproduced accurately and not
used in a misleading context.The material must be acknowledged as Crown copyright and the title of
the document specified.

Where we have identified any third party copyright material you will need to obtain permission from
the copyright holders concerned.

For any other use of this material please write to Office of Public Sector Information, Information
Policy Team, Kew, Richmond, Surrey TW9 4DU or e-mail: licensing@t

ISBN:9780101752923

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Contents

Acknowledgements
Headlines
Executive summary
Introduction

PART 1: SOME BASIC FACTS

A brief guide to the postal service
Not the Post Office
Who uses postal services?
Definition of the postal market
The letters process
The introduction of competition

PART 2: THE ISSUES

Post matters
What is the universal service?
What difference does it make?
Public opinion
Residential consumers
Small and medium-sized enterprises
Large businesses
The impact of liberalisation

The market has changed
The digital revolution
Cyclical change
Structural change
Challenges and opportunities
A positive future

Royal Mail faces severe difficulties
The significance of Royal Mail

The challenge posed by structural decline
Royal Mail's ability to respond to market decline

Inefficiency

Pension deficit

Pricing

Labour relations

Relationship with the regulator
Royal Mail’s financial position
The universal service is under threat

PART 3: THE CHOICE

Modernise or decline?
The status quo is untenable
Short-term measures

=
6 CO DS

22

23
24
24
25
27
28

30

31

32
32
35
36
37
38

39
40
41
41
42

47
48
48
49
49
54
55
56
58
58
60

62

63
64
66

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Acompensation fund
Degrading the universal service
Modernisation — in principle

PART 4: THE SOLUTION

Modernising Royal Mail
Modernisation in practice
What does Royal Mail need to modernise?
Commercial confidence
Access to capital
Access to corporate experience
Meeting these requirements together
Partnership
Post Office Ltd
Pensions
Anew approach

Changes to the regulatory regime
Anew regulator for a changing market
The role of regulation
Limitations on the role of regulation
The regulator’s duties
Regulatory tools
Formal market analysis
Regulatory powers
Cost transparency
RPI-X and promoting efficiency
Atisk-based approach to regulation
Benefits of competition for the universal service
Impact of competition on Royal Mail’s revenues
Competition and the universal service constraint
The regulatory framework
The downstream access regime
The potential for deregulation
Value added tax
Shared responsibility but clear accountability

From policy to practice
Sustaining the universal service

PART 5: ANNEXES

About the report
List of figures
Glossary of technical terms

Evidence to the review
Summary of written submissions
End-to-end competition
Bibliography

About the review
Terms of reference
Members of the panel

66
67
67

70

71
72
73
74
77
77
79
79
82
83
84

87
88
90
90
91
91
91
92

94
95
95
95
s
97
97
100
100
102

104
104

106

109

115
155
157

162
163

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Acknowledgements

We set out at the beginning of this independent review to engage a wide range of
stakeholders with an interest in the future of the postal service. Our list included
consumers and their representatives, postal companies, trade unions, political
parties, government departments, the devolved administrations and regulators.
We are immensely grateful for the countless hours which so many have given to
answering our questions and explaining their respective points of view. Their
comments, evidence and ideas are the foundations of this report.

Thanks go to the following organisations for their written submissions to the
review: Age Concern, Amazon, Citipost, Commission for Equality and Human
Rights, Communication Workers Union, Direct Marketing Association, DX Group,
E.ON UK, Federation of Small Businesses, H Bauer Publishing, Haymarket
Publishing, Home Delivery Network Ltd, HSBC, IMRG, Institute of Directors, IPC
Media, Lloyds TSB, Lovefilm, Mail Competition Forum, Mail Order Traders
Association, Mail Users Association, MBNA, Merrill Lynch, National Federation of
SubPostmasters, Neopost, Nordic Enterprise Trust, People Post, Periodical
Publishers Association, Pitney Bowes, Postcomm, Postwatch, Redwood Publishing,
Reed Business Information, Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal Mail, Royal Mail Pension
Trustees, Scottish National Party, The Economist, TNT Post, UK Mail, UNITE, UPS,
Williams Lea. We are also grateful to those who submitted evidence in their
capacity as constituency MPs or as individuals.

We greatly appreciate the time which many individuals and organisations took to
discuss their experiences and analysis of the UK postal service with the panel and
to present their policy proposals. We benefited from numerous meetings with
Allan Leighton, Margaret Prosser, Adam Crozier, Alan Cook, Mark Higson, lan
Duncan, Alex Smith, Sue Whalley, Mike Prince, Andy McPhie and their teams at
Royal Mail; Billy Hayes, Dave Ward, Jeremy Baugh and members of the postal
committee at the Communication Workers Union; Commissioners, Nigel
Stapleton, Sarah Chambers, Tim Brown and their colleagues at Postcomm; Millie
Banerjee, Howard Webber and lan Leigh at Postwatch; David Currie, Ed Richards
and Peter Culham at Ofcom; Guy Buswell and lan Paterson, Business Post; Nick
Wells and Angus Russell, TNT Post, UK; John Coghlan, James Greenbury and their
colleagues at DX Mail; Paul Reuter and Brian Scott at UNITE; Jane Newell and
Gerry Degaute, Royal Mail Pension Trustees; and Richard Bradley and Phil Burns at
Frontier Economics.

Particular thanks go to Professor Martin Cave, Director of the Centre for
Management under Regulation at Warwick Business School, for his advice on
regulatory issues; and to Adrian King at Strategia for his international
comparisons.

We learned a great deal from visiting postal companies in the UK and overseas
and are grateful for the time taken by people in all parts of the postal service to
talk so openly about their work. Thanks go to the staff at the Royal Mail Centre at
Greenford, the Princess Royal Distribution Centre, Northolt Delivery Office and
East Finchley Delivery Office; to Harry Koorstra and his team at TNT Post,
Amsterdam; John-Paul Forceville and his colleagues at La Poste, Paris; to John
Allen, Chief Finance Officer, and his team at Deutsche Post, Bonn; Johnny Thijs,
Chief Executive, De Post — La Poste, Brussels; Helge Israelsen, Chief Executive, Post
Danmark, Copenhagen; Mary-Ann Gibbons at United States Postal Service in
Washington DC; and to Dan G Blair, Chairman of the US Postal Regulatory
Commission.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Many thanks also go to: Alan Alexander, Postwatch Scotland; Eric Austin, Onepost;
David Barton, Royal Bank of Scotland; Simon Campbell, Via Post; Bill Cockburn;
Graham Corbett; Mike Critelli and Tim Walsh, Pitney Bowes; Peter Davies,
Lansdowne Partners; Lord Dearing; Steve Gill, Hewlett Packard; Richard
Gillingwater, Cass Business School; Alan Halfacre, Mail Users Association; Paul
Hatch, IPC Media; Professor Dieter Helm, New College, Oxford; Philip Hemard,
Amazon; Chris Hemmings, Price Waterhouse Coopers; John Hughes, Regional Mail
Services; James Kelly, Direct Marketing Association; Nicola King, Rothschild;
Robert Langton; lan Locks and Pru Jones, Periodical Publishers Association; Peter
Luff MP (BERR Select Committee, House of Commons); Adam Mantzos, Brockley
Consulting; Sir Callum McCarthy, Financial Services Authority; Ken McFarlane,
Deloitte; Stuart McKinnon and Clive Davenport, Federation of Small Businesses;
George Osborne MP, Alan Duncan MP and John Whittingdale MP, Conservative
Party; Jana Osbourn, Women’s Institute; Jonathan Powell and his team, Morgan
Stanley; Charles Reed, Reed Associates; David Sibbick, Mail Competition Forum;
Neil Simpson, Publicis; Douglas Sinclair, Scottish Consumer Council; Mark Sitiver,
DHL Global; Martin Stanley; Tim Stone, KPMG; Ben Story and Charlie Foreman,
Deutsche Bank; Sarah Teather MP and John Thurso MP, Liberal Democrats;
George Thomson, National Federation of SubPostmasters; Elmar Toime; Soren
Vestergaard-Poulsen, CVC; Mike Weir MP, Scottish National Party; Lord Whitty, Ed
Mayo and Roger Darlington, Consumer Focus; Bob Wigley and Justin Anstee,
Merrill Lynch; and John Yorkston of Legal Post.

Finally, and not least, a number of Government Departments and public bodies
supported the review with resources, evidence, ideas and expertise. We are
grateful to the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, HM
Treasury, the Shareholder Executive, The Prime Minister's Office, the Scotland
Office, the Scottish Government and the Welsh Assembly Government.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Headlines

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

This review was established to maintain the universal postal service. The
size and scope of the Post Office network — the country’s largest retail and
financial chain — are largely outside its scope.

The universal postal service is important. The ability to deliver items to all
28 million business and residential addresses in the UK is part of our
economic and social glue.

But the universal service is under threat. The explosion of digital media —
internet, email, mobile text and broadcasting — has prompted an
unprecedented decline in the letters market.

There is a positive future for the postal service, provided that postal
companies are able to respond quickly to the changing needs of customers
and embrace the opportunities which new technology brings.

The only company currently capable of providing the universal service in
the UK is Royal Mail. But it is much less efficient than many of its European
peers and faces severe difficulties.

There is a general consensus that the status quo is untenable. The
universal service cannot be sustained under present policies.

A radical reform of Royal Mail’s network is inevitable. The company has a
plan to achieve this. But the pace of change needs to accelerate
significantly.

Unless Royal Mail can modernise faster, a forced restructuring under
European rules is highly likely. That would be a costly and poor outcome
for the taxpayer, for consumers, for Royal Mail and its employees.

Now is not the time to reduce the universal service. Reducing the number
of deliveries each week from six to five would be in no-one’s best interests.

Sustaining the universal service depends fundamentally on modernising
Royal Mail.

The company urgently needs commercial confidence, capital and corporate
experience to modernise quickly and effectively.

Modernisation will not happen through conflict or attrition. The CWU and
Royal Mail must develop a more constructive working relationship in which
both are engaged in the long-term strategic future of the company.

We recommend a strategic partnership between Royal Mail and one or
more private sector companies with demonstrable experience of
transforming a major business, ideally a major network business.

Given the wider social role of the Post Office network, Post Office Ltd
should remain wholly within public sector ownership.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
15.

16.

17.

18.

19.

We also propose that the Government should tackle the historic pension
deficit, to enable the company to reap the benefits of modernisation.

Effective competition can help realise a positive future. A new regulatory
regime is needed to place postal regulation within the broader context of
the communications market.

Parliamentary accountability for providing the universal service should be
strengthened.

Our recommendations are a package. Each element of the package is
needed if the universal service is to be sustained: modernisation achieved
through partnership, tackling the pension deficit, and changing the
regulatory regime.

Our recommendations require substantial change. But we believe that
they are proportionate to challenges faced by the postal sector and can be
implemented successfully.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Executive summary

The facts

The universal postal service is important. The ability to deliver items to all 28
million business and residential addresses in the UK is part of our economic and
social glue.

» The review was established to maintain the universal postal service: the
collection, sorting, transportation and delivery of letters. Our
recommendations are designed to do exactly that.

» The universal service has a strong social and economic rationale. Customers
place a high value on the affordability of the service, on a uniform tariff, and
deliveries on six days per week. Many depend on it for their communication
and business needs: attracting customers, invoicing, supplying goods and
receiving income. Without it, consumers in different parts of the country
would face different levels of service and different prices.

>» Weare clear that post offices provide a vital point of access to the universal
service for residential consumers and small businesses. But the Post Office
provides a much wider range of services. Indeed, it is the country’s largest
retail and financial chain. For that reason, the size and shape of the Post
Office network lies well beyond the scope of this report.

The issues

But the universal service is under threat. The explosion of digital media —
internet, email, mobile text and broadcasting — has prompted an unprecedented
decline in the letters market.

> For the first time on record, the volume of letters sent in the United Kingdom
is falling each year as consumers make greater use of electronic media. Until
now, this structural decline has been moderated by economic growth. As the
economy slows, however, volumes could fall by as much as 5-7% per year.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Growth in letters, compared with economic growth, 1984-2007

19 icra 70

30 Technology I I 5.9
Pd

10 Economic growth 10

se LEPEPPEEEPEN 49

20 20

The digital age brings both challenges and opportunities for the postal
service. Transactional mail (such as bank statements) and social mail are in
decline. They account for over a quarter of the UK postal market's value.
Meanwhile, goods ordered on-line (fulfilment mail) are growing and delivered
at a higher value than letters. And new technology heralds new services in
which post complements other media. Publishing and advertising mail could

well benefit.

Indicative stages of the life cycle for different mail applications

Advertising mall (1°29 at mail (1.2%)

Publications 7
Business to business 2% Transactional mail -2%)
Business to consumers: 43%

Fulfilment (+15%)

High Growth Maturity

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
There is a positive future for the postal service, provided that postal companies
are able to respond quickly to the changing needs of customers and embrace the
opportunities which new technology brings.

> Mail has unique properties. It is more personal, compared to other media.
And many items currently sent by post are difficult or impossible to transmit
in digital form. These attributes can provide the foundation for a successful
future if, but only if, the postal service is dedicated to meeting the needs of
all consumers. Mail must be a delivery service of choice, not merely a safety
net or a service of last resort.

» A thriving postal market must appeal to a wide range of customers. Postal
companies must be obsessive about meeting the needs of senders and
recipients alike. They must provide reliable and convenient services at
competitive prices. These services must be sustainable, with a low
environmental impact, and without the need for subsidy by taxpayers. And
postal companies must be innovative, seizing new opportunities in the
communications and logistics markets to offer new and better services.

The only company currently capable of providing the universal service in the UK
is Royal Mail. But it is much less efficient than many of its European peers and
faces severe difficulties.

» Royal Mail delivers 99% of all items posted in the UK. No other company is
likely to have an equivalent national network in the foreseeable future. Its
financial viability is, therefore, vital to the future of the universal service.

» Royal Mail needs to respond urgently to the structural decline in the UK
letters market. It will need to drive down costs and diversify as traditional
revenues decline. But it faces many constraints in doing so.

> First and foremost, Royal Mail is much less efficient than many of its
European peers. While Royal Mail has already removed around £500 million
in costs from its operations (including over 40,000 jobs), the management
recognises that it is only part way through the transformation necessary to
regain its status as best in class. Last year, Royal Mail’s letters business was
the least profitable postal company amongst its Western European peers, and
the only one to make an operating loss.

® Since the 1990s, Royal Mail’s national distribution network is virtually
unchanged, whereas modern European companies have reduced the number
of mail centres by around 50% to optimise their operations. At Royal Mail,
postal workers sequence all their letters by hand before setting off on their
delivery rounds. By comparison, European operators sequence 85% of their
letters by machine. A number of restrictive practices inhibit Royal Mail’s
efficiency, while the company pays its workforce above current average
market rates.

» Royal Mail faces other constraints, too. Its pension deficit is higher than any
of the FTSE 100 companies and is highly volatile. As customers have access to
a wider range of communications media, increasing postal prices is no longer
guaranteed to generate sufficient revenue to offset falling volumes. The
company suffers from poor labour relations. In 2007, the postal sector
accounted for 60% of the days lost to industrial action across the whole
economy. The relationship between the company and its regulator is
similarly difficult.

10

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
There is a general consensus that the status quo is untenable. The universal
service cannot be sustained under present policies.

» Companies such as Deutsche Post (Germany) and TNT (Netherlands) achieved
profit margins of between 13% and 15% from their mail operations, even
though they faced greater end-to-end competition than Royal Mail does in
the UK. By contrast, Royal Mail’s financial position is precarious. It made an
operating loss last year.

Operating profit margins of Western European postal companies,
2007 (%)

0%
150%
100%
50%

7% (0.0%)

ee ge le HP ote oes use :

eg a geal ag) FP GOH 33

"3s 58 a2 033 3 é a 6e e~

som! = ib Bias g58 é

» The introduction of postal competition has had only a lit 'd impact on its
profitability. Royal Mail’s relative inefficiency is far more significant.

® And there remain major challenges ahead. Royal Mail lost around £500
million in operating profit to other forms of communication in 2007-8, five
times the operating profit lost to postal competition. Against the backdrop of
an unprecedented, structural decline in the letters market, the company’s
financial position will deteriorate unless there is significant change. The
universal service is under threat and the status quo untenable.

The choice

A radical reform of Royal Mail’s network is inevitable. The company has a plan
to achieve this. But the pace of change needs to accelerate significantly.

> Without policy changes, it is likely that Royal Mail will need to approach

Government for emergency financial support, and that transformation would
have to be carried out under European rules on restructuring aid.

11

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Unless Royal Mail can modernise faster, a forced restructuring under European
rules is highly likely. That would be a costly and poor outcome for the taxpayer,
for consumers, for Royal Mail and its employees.

» It could force Royal Mail to withdraw from parts of the market. It could
weaken the company’s ability to develop, expand and diversify its business in
the future. And it would mean accelerated job losses. That would make it
difficult to manage the transition through redeployment and voluntary
redundancy. Doing nothing, therefore, is not a credible option.

Now is not the time to reduce the universal service. Reducing the number of
deliveries each week from six to five would be in no-one’s best interests.

» Some have suggested that the demands of the universal service may need to
be reduced, either by withdrawing the uniform tariff or by reducing the
number of deliveries from six per week, to five. Some have proposed that
other postal companies should compensate Royal Mail for having the
obligation to provide the universal service. Both are permitted under
European law. But neither is appropriate, necessary or effective. These
options would not address the fundamental issues undermining the financial
health of Royal Mail.

» We recommend that degrading the universal service and a compensation
fund should be rejected as policy measures in current circumstances. They
would penalise consumers, postal companies or the taxpayer while Royal
Mail’s costs are substantially higher than necessary. They represent a poor
deal for the consumer and the taxpayer. And they would weaken the
incentives for Royal Mail to respond to structural change in the postal market.

The solution

Sustaining the universal service depends fundamentally on modernising Royal
Mail.

» To sustain the universal service, Royal Mail must be able to respond, and
respond quickly, to the structural decline in the letters market. That means
tackling its inefficiency, the pension deficit, and the difficult relationships
between the company, unions and regulator. All constrain Royal Mail’s ability
to change. It must be able to modernise more quickly and go further than
current plans.

» The process of modernisation has two distinct phases. Royal Mail’s first
priority must be transformation. There is too much resistance to change at a
time when the company must focus relentlessly on meeting the needs of
customers. Royal Mail must change the culture of the organisation, improve
efficiency and reduce costs. Secondly, that will enable the company to
diversify, finding new sources of revenue either by providing related products
or expanding to cover a wider geographical area.

12

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
® In practice, modernisation involves a radical change to Royal Mail’s national
network. It must be for management to decide on the infrastructure which
best meets the requirements of the universal service and the changing needs
of its customers. Experience from other countries suggests that the company
could provide the universal service with around half its current mail centres.

» Transformation is no ordinary proposition. It is expensive, complex and must
be completed while meeting some of the highest quality of service standards
in Europe. It will be challenging for the existing workforce. There will be a
significant reduction of jobs over time, as investment in new capital replaces
labour. But if well-planned and implemented effectively, modernisation will
secure the future of the postal service in the UK, bringing stability to Royal
Mail.

The company urgently needs commercial confidence, capital and corporate
experience to modernise quickly and effectively.

» Commercial confidence. Royal Mail must have greater clarity about its
objectives over the short and long term. That will require removing the
spectre of political intervention, enabling management to make decisions
about modernisation entirely on a commercial basis, in order to safeguard the
universal service. Political separation must be matched by effective
engagement between management and the unions about the long-term
strategic direction of the business.

» We believe strongly that modernisation of the business will only be achieved
if industrial relations are modernised. That requires change at the
Communication Workers Union — the main postal union — as well as Royal
Mail. The CWU must accept the scale of transformation required and show
that it can tackle the behaviour and internal processes which at present result
in confrontation and obstruction. Management, in turn, must be prepared to
play its role in improving relationships at a national and local level by setting
out its vision for the company in a transparent way, the implications of
transformation, risks of failure, and the opportunities for diversification.

» Access to capital. With a pension revaluation due next year, significant
market uncertainty, letter volumes declining even more quickly than
anticipated and the beginning of an economic downturn, what was a tight but
manageable financing position now has substantially more risk attached. As a
matter of prudence, the company must be in a position where it can quickly
and easily raise more capital if that becomes necessary in the near future.

» Government funding comes with constraints. There are many other calls on
public finances. And any investment by Government must meet strict rules
set out by the European Commission. This takes time. By contrast, private
capital is generally more flexible and more tolerant of necessary risk. It can
be raised more easily, faster and for a wider range of purposes and does not
come at the cost of competing public priorities.

> Access to corporate experience. The scale of change required at Royal Mail is
huge, and the impact of failure very high. Royal Mail needs access to the
corporate experience of one or more private-sector companies which have
successfully managed complex change on a similar scale and under equally
challenging circumstances, ideally in a network business. The capacity to
draw deeply on a wide range of experience at junior, middle and senior

13

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
management levels, as and when challenges arise, would add much greater
value than hiring a limited number of people, however well-qualified.

> Addressing just one or two of these three requirements will not be sufficient.
All three are vital to Royal Mail’s successful modernisation and, therefore,
sustaining the universal service. Based on experience to date, it is our strong
view that the existing policy framework is not capable of meeting these
needs.

We recommend a strategic partnership between Royal Mail and one or more
private sector companies with demonstrable experience of transforming a major
business, ideally a major network business.

®» To provide commercial confidence, capital and corporate experience, we
recommend that there should be a strategic partnership between Royal Mail
and one or more private sector partners with demonstrable experience in
transforming a major business, ideally a network business, in circumstances
comparable to those now faced by Royal Mail. The precise nature of such a
partnership, and its detailed terms, should be a matter for the Government to
negotiate. At its core, however, will be Royal Mail’s obligations under the
universal service, as required under EU and UK law.

Post Office Ltd should remain wholly within public sector ownership.

> Given the social obligations of the Post Office, there is little prospect that the
network will be sustained on a fully commercial basis. We recommend,
therefore, that it should remain wholly within public ownership. To ensure
that post offices continue to provide a point of access to the universal service,
we recommend that there should be a long-term agreement between Royal
Mail and Post Office Ltd. We also believe that the post office could enhance
the service available to recipients by providing a collection point for parcels
and packages.

We also propose that the Government should tackle the historic pension deficit,
to enable the company to reap the benefits of modernisation.

» The size and volatility of the pension deficit would be extremely difficult to
manage for any business. But it has severe implications for Royal Mail and,
therefore, the universal service. The deficit is a very significant long-term
drain on the company’s cash. Royal Mail is already balance sheet insolvent.
The deficit makes it difficult for the company to compete effectively, even
allowing for an improvement in efficiency. It is a barrier to external
investment by a strategic partner and inflates prices.

» Following liberalisation, Royal Mail must respond to competitive pressures
while also meeting its obligation to provide the universal service in a declining
market. Tackling the pension deficit, on its own, will not be sufficient to
achieve modernisation. But a new approach is needed if the benefits of
liberalisation are to be realised.

» In our view, the best long-term solution is that the risk associated with the
historic pension liabilities should be transferred to Government.

14

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
» We recommend that the Government should take responsibility for the
historic pension liabilities in a way which is linked to the achievement of
modernisation. It could, for example take a staged approach in which the
scheme’s assets and liabilities related to pensioners and members with
deferred benefits were transferred to separate, Government-backed
arrangements.

Effective competition can help realise a positive future. A new regulatory
regime is needed to place postal regulation within the broader context of the
communications market.

> Regulation is needed to ensure that the universal service is met. Regulation
also protects consumers from excessive prices and can play a role in the
modernisation of Royal Mail by creating incentives for it to become more
efficient.

> We recommend that the responsibility for regulating the postal sector should
be transferred from Postcomm to Ofcom. This move will reflect the fact that
postal services are increasingly part of the wider communications sector, in
competition with broadcasters, internet providers and telephone companies.
Ofcom has a deep understanding of these media. It also has the experience
of regulating markets undergoing rapid technological change and, in
particular, creating a regulatory framework for a large company (BT) facing
the challenge of modernisation and liberalisation.

» We recommend that, as postal regulator, Ofcom should have a primary duty
to maintain the universal service. In carrying out its duty, Ofcom will need to
recognise that competition brings benefits for consumers but that, in
particular circumstances in future, competition may also pose a threat for the
universal service. We recommend that Ofcom should continue to promote
competition in relation to the postal sector “where appropriate”.

» We recommend that Ofcom conducts a thorough and comprehensive analysis
of the markets which make up the postal services sector, and the extent to
which Royal Mail has market power in each segment. The exercise should
take into account the increasing links between postal services and the wider
communications sector. This exercise may enable deregulation of the sector
in future.

> We also recommend that Ofcom should have competition powers in relation
to postal services, as it does for its existing portfolio. This would enable
Ofcom to investigate anti-competitive conduct in any aspect of the postal
market, whether or not connected with Royal Mail’s licence. It would also
enable deregulation in future.

» Effective regulation depends partly on improving information about Royal
Mail’s costs. We recommend that Ofcom should address cost transparency as
a priority and build its own model of costs in consultation with Royal Mail.
We do not recommend the formal separation of Royal Mail into differently
owned business units.

» We are clear that the decision to grant alternative carriers “access” to Royal
Mail’s delivery network has had benefits for customers. We recommend that
the regime should be continued, but that Ofcom should review the way in
which access is currently regulated. Moving to an alternative system of
regulation would first require greater clarity about Royal Mail’s costs.

1s

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Parliamentary accountability for provi
strengthened.

ing the universal service should be

» We recommend that the regulator should report on an annual basis to
Parliament specifically on its responsibilities in ensuring the provision of the
universal service, with a hearing before the BERR Select Committee. In turn,
the regulator should ensure that, when monitoring Royal Mail’s obligations,
there is a clear and specific focus on sustaining the universal service.

Our recommendations are a package. Each element of the package is needed if
the universal service is to be sustained: modernisation achieved through
partnership, tackling the pension deficit, and changing the regulatory regime.

» None of these changes will be sufficient to resolve the issues which we have
identified, if implemented on its own. If implemented together, on the other
hand, we believe that our recommendations are capable of bringing about
the structural changes necessary to achieve a positive future for the postal
service.

Our recommendations require substantial change. But we believe that they are
proportionate to challenges faced by the postal sector and can be implemented
successfully.

» The Government should move urgently to provide the whole market with the
certainty it needs to invest. Ideally, the new regulatory regime, to be
designed by Ofcom, should be in place for the start of the next price control
in 2010. This will require legislation in the current session of Parliament.

» We recommend that the process of searching for strategic partners should
begin in parallel. Likely consolidation in the European postal market in the
future means that opportunities may not recur. Clarity about the future of
the pension deficit will be an important part of the negotiation, vital in
enabling Royal Mail to reap the benefits of modernisation and in providing
certainty for scheme members.

16

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
17

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The postal service is
no stranger to
change. It has had
to adapt to many
new circumstances
since its foundation
in 1635.

Introduction

We have entitled our report “Modernise or Decline” to reflect the stark
choice which many other European countries have tackled already, and
which we now face in the UK. The world of communications, and the
needs of consumers, are changing fast. So too must postal services, else
face inexorable decline. The choice applies not only to postal companies
but those with a direct interest in the future of the postal services:
unions, regulators and Government.

The economic outlook has changed significantly since May, when we
published our interim report. A significant economic downturn increases
the urgency of challenges we outlined just a few months ago. At a time
when the Government has acted to secure stability in the financial
system, there is also a need to take decisive action to secure the future of
the universal postal service. And as in other sectors, the Government
takes on financial risks historically carried in the private sector, there is
an opportunity to find a better balance of risk and reward for the postal
sector. This is particularly true in relation to Royal Mail — where we judge
the current risk to taxpayers is significant and, without action, will
continue to increase.

Our national postal service is no stranger to change. Founded in 1635 by
Charles I, it has constantly adapted to new circumstances.

> Rowland Hill’s introduction of the “penny post” was simultaneously
the beginning of the modern universal service, and the business
model which survives today: “one price goes anywhere” and “the
sender pays’. Consumers were given more choice by 1968 — with
the introduction of second class mail, using the same principles. The
market is now fully open to competition, offering a wider range of
products aimed at different customers.

> The way in which letters are delivered has systematically evolved
with the development of transport. The last 180 years have seen the
rise and fall of the mail train for example. While some rail services
are still used for slower mail, air transport is now used to ensure that
Royal Mail can deliver first class mail overnight from one end of the
country to the other. Each innovation in transport has required a
fresh look at resources and organisation.

Changes in technology over the last century have been accompanied by
changes to the Royal Mail’s legal status, organisation and governance.

> The idea of converting the Post Office’ into a nationalised industry
was raised as early as 1932. Proposals from the Bridgeman
Committee in that year were, however, rejected and the Post Office
remained a department of central government, with the Postmaster
General sitting in Cabinet as a Secretary of State.

* For much of this period the business that is now known as Royal Mail Group was called the Post
Office (or the General Post Office). This included both post offices, and the letters business.

18

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The postal service 5.

must be ready to

adapt again, as

circumstances

change rapidly.
6.
Ts
8.
iS.

Establishing the ad

right framework

to maintain the

universal service

isa shared

responsibility.

» Aseries of studies and reports in the 1960s led to the Post Office Act
1969 which established the Post Office as a statutory public
corporation with two divisions: Post and Telecommunications. In
1981, the telecommunications operation was transferred to a new
public corporation, British Telecommunications. BT was privatised in
1984.

» In 2001, the postal business became a public limited company under
the Companies Act, with Government holding all of the shares. _ Its
name was changed from Consignia to Royal Mail Group in 2002.

There will be many more changes in future. And change brings
uncertainty. We cannot predict how quickly consumers will move from
mail to electronic media, any more than we can foresee the next step
forward in digital technology. That said, it seems clear to us that the
arrival of new technologies will bring new business opportunities, as well
as risk. Moreover, we have no doubt that the rationale for the postal
service — the exchange of information and goods — remains relevant and
important in today’s society. Post can and should continue to play an
important role as part of a dynamic and growing communications sector.

This is, then, no post mortem. Our findings have been informed by
history. But we look mainly to the future - at managing risks and realising
opportunities.

We focus first and foremost on customers. Our recommendations seek
to ensure that they benefit from a universal postal service which
responds to their needs, is efficient and, therefore, can be sustained at
reasonable cost.

We have considered taxpayers. They have lent Royal Mail £1.2 billion in
the last two years to modernise its operations: the equivalent of around
£40 each. Without substantial change, this investment may be at risk. If,
on the other hand, Royal Mail is able to find new sources of revenue, and
reduce costs, the taxpayer will share in the company’s success.

We have been mindful of the sector's significance not only to the
economy but to the lives of pensioners, former and current employees of
Royal Mail and other postal companies, and their families: around a
million people in all. The wider public, also, has great affinity with the
postal service. Many have told us of their affection for, and trust in, their
local postmen and women. For both reasons, we have devoted as much
of our time as possible since January to meeting people at all levels who
know about postal services and have a direct interest in their future.

In presenting our recommendations to Government, we hope that this
engagement amongst all stakeholders in the success of the postal sector
will continue and develop. More than at any other time, the future of
the market depends on effective working relationships between
consumer organisations, management, unions, regulators and
Government, a willingness to explore issues together, and the capacity to
find common solutions, Establishing the right framework must be a
shared responsibility. Royal Mail should then be accountable for
providing the universal service, and should have the freedom to get on
with the job. The regulatory framework should ensure that Royal Mail’s
commercial objectives are compatible with its public service obligation.

19

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
11.

We have written this report with a general audience in mind. Post may
be a simple concept. But the business of transferring items from any one
of 28 million homes and companies to any other is complex. We have
included a glossary (Annex 8) and a brief guide to the postal market at
the beginning of this report for those coming new to the subject. It
includes some of the facts which we found most interesting in beginning
our task in January 2008. From facts, we move to analysis: a diagnosis of
the problem. And then judgement: the solution which we believe will
secure the universal service.

20

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
21

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Part 1.

Some basic facts

22
A brief guide to the postal service

This first part provides some basic facts about the mail market, its customers,

the mail process and its regulation.

Summary

» It is important to distinguish between the postal service and post offices.

» This report is about the postal service: the business of collecting, sorting,
transporting and delivering mail. It does not comment on the much wider
retail and financial business of Post Office Ltd.

> Mail is big business. In all, 86% of letters are sent by companies.

> Residential consumers are important, since they receive 70% of items posted
in the UK.

> The UK has led the way in Europe by opening up the postal market fully to
competition.

23

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Our review is about
the postal service.
We have not been
asked to make
recommendations
about the much
wider retail business
of the Post Office.

Residential
consumers receive
70% of the mail
posted in the UK.

Not the Post Office

12.

13.

The postal service and the Post Office tend to be used interchangeably by
most people. In the postal business, however, and in our report, there is
a marked distinction between the two.

>

The postal service is the main subject of our study. It covers the
collection, sorting, transportation and delivery of mail: letters,
packages and parcels. The largest postal company in the UK is Royal
Mail. There are 21 other companies with a licence to provide postal
services.

Post Office Ltd has a network of 12,000” outlets across the country.
These “post offices” are a vital point of access to the universal postal
service for residential consumers and small businesses: they provide
advice about postal services, sell stamps and act as a collection point
for letters and parcels. But they offer a much wider array of
products and services. Post Office Ltd is the largest? retail and
financial services chain in the country. It is largely outside the scope
of this report. We have not been asked by Government to consider
the scope or size of the Post Office network.

Confusion sometimes arises because The Post Office was the name of the
public corporation which ran both the postal service and post office
network before 2001. Post Office Ltd is now a subsidiary company of
Royal Mail Group Ltd. This review is concerned with the 73% of Royal
Mail Group’s revenue generated by what is often called the “letters
business”. We refer to this throughout the report simply as “Royal Mail”.

Figure 1

External revenues of Royal Mail Group, 2007-8
By division

cis

(13.1%)

Parcelforce

Post Office ts Fr 0%,)

(9.7%) Other (0.4%)

Royal Mail (72.8%)

Who uses postal services?

14.

Only 11% of all letters are sent between households, the majority of
which are sent over the Christmas period. Including letters sent to

? This will be the number of post offices nationwide (including the mobile “outreach” services) after
the completion of the network change programme,
* Measured by the number of outlets.

24

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Mail is big
business. The
vast majority of
post is sent by
companies.

15.

16.

businesses, the average household spends 50p per week on mai As
recipients, however, residential consumers are particularly important.
They receive 70% of the mail posted in the UK. Figure 2 provides a full
breakdown of the letters market by sender and recipient.

Figure 2

Segmentation of the letters market (volume)
by sender and recipient

issidaiial consimario Residential consumer to residential consumer
business (3%)

Business
to business Business to residential consumer

By far the largest proportion of mail is generated by businesses and
received by residential consumers. The 50 companies which make the
most extensive use of the postal service account for 40% of mail
volumes®. They comprise financial service companies, utilities and major
retailers. But smaller enterprises are also regular users, and are often
dependent on the postal service in carrying out their business. A survey
by the Federation of Small Businesses® found that:

> 88% of small businesses send post every day, 59% delivering goods
and services and 69% sending invoices;

» 41% use the postal system to order goods which enable them to
carry out their business.

Definition of the postal market

The postal market comprises:

» addressed letters, large letters and packets which are small enough
to be posted through letterboxes. This is the main focus of our
report.

“ Family Spending 2007, Office of National Statistics

* Table 1, Postcomm’s first submission to the review panel

° Small Businesses and the UK Postal Market postal survey: First Past the Post, Federation of Small
Businesses, January 2007. The survey had responses from 3,356 small businesses.

25

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
» unaddressed items’ which can be posted through letterboxes but do
not contain an address, such as leaflets, catalogues and brochures.

» express and courier items’ which are guaranteed to arrive on a
particular day or time, and / or which require a signature on delivery
or “track and trace” facility.

» standard parcels. These items are not guaranteed to be delivered by
a specific time and cannot be posted through letter boxes.

17. Mail can also be classified by application:

» transactional mail: generated by businesses used in a financial
transaction, such as bank statements and credit card bills.

» fulfilment: goods ordered by mail, internet or telephone which need
to be delivered to residential consumers and businesses.

> advertising mail: mail advertising products or services, sent to a
named member of a business or household.

> publications: periodicals and magazines delivered to the consumer.

» social mail: mail sent between residential consumers, such as
birthday cards.

Figure 3

Value of the UK postal market, 2006-7 (£11.4 billion)
by postal type and application

Type of mal

50
ca = I =

Application: Transactional Fulfilment Advertising Publications. Social
%total value 19.3% 43.9% 14.9% 14.9% 7.0%

"Express, courier and unaddressed mail are not regulated. Companies undertaking these activities do
not require to be licensed by the regulator, Postcomm,

26

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The letters process

18.

19.

20.

The postal process for letters typically has five stages: collection, sorting
by region, transportation, sorting into “walks”, and delivery. Figure 4
provides a basic guide to Royal Mail’s operation.

Collection takes place from one of the UK’s 115,000 post boxes, 12,000
post office outlets and around 87,000 business addresses. After initial
sorting during the evening at one of 69 mail centres, letters pass through
one of nine distribution centres on their way to a second mail centre.
Each of the mail centres receives mail from different parts of the country,
sorts letters at local level, and transfers them to one of 2,249 delivery
offices®. There, they are put into the right sequence and delivered to the
door.

Figure 4

The 24-hour letters process

Callection Sorting Transport Sorting Delivery
(Throughthe cay) (evening) (eight) {Ear morring) (Until 2-3 pm)
Post bones

vitage 8
(south West

Portotces

Deivery Sorting Transport sorting Collection
(unei2-3 pm) (early moming) (ight). (evening) (Throughthe cay)

Each of the 69 mail centres has an inward and an outward function at
different times of the day. Bulk mail handled by Royal Mail which has
been pre-sorted is taken directly to one of the nine distribution centres.

Companies are permitted to carry out collection, sorting, transportation,
and delivery services for addressed letters under a licence issued by the
regulator, Postcomm. A number of postal companies take advantage of
downstream access arrangements. They collect mail in bulk from
businesses, sort and transport it, before handing it over to Royal Mail at
one of the inward mail centres for delivery over the final mile of the
journey (Figure 5). Businesses which frequently mail in bulk also have
direct access to Royal Mail’s network.

* This includes 884 Scale Payment Delivery Offices (at September 2008). These are post offices,
predominantly located in rural areas, which provide premises, facilities and supervision for Royal Mail
delivery staff.

27

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Figure 5

Access arrangements

callection Sorting Transport Sorting Delivery
(Throughthe cay) (evening) (ight) (Early morning) (Until 23 pm)

=

The introduction of competition

UK has led the way 21.

in Europe by opening
the postal market to
competition.

22.

The UK has been amongst the first countries in Europe” to open the
postal sector to competition. The Postal Services Act 2000 gave
Postcomm a primary duty to ensure the provision of a universal service at
an affordable uniform tariff, and to promote effective competition where
appropriate. Since 2001, the regulator has introduced competition into
the UK market in a number of stages: through niche licences; by staged
opening of the bulk mail market; and then by full liberalisation on 1
January 2006. In all, 21 companies are now licensed to provide postal
services in the UK in addition to Royal Mail.

Almost all competition in the letters market is focused in the ‘upstream’
area. New entrants collect, sort and transport 39%!° of the bulk mail
sent by business to other companies and residential consumers. Overall,
they have acquired 20% of Royal Mail’s upstream activities. This equates
to a 2% reduction of Royal Mail’s revenues from letters because the
company still charges access competitors for delivery over the final mile.

* Sweden and Finland liberalised their postal markets in 1993 and 1991 respectively.
® Source: Royal Mail, 2007-8

28

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Figure 6

Impact of access competition on Royal Mail, 2007-8
By volume (upstream), and by revenue

Volume (upstream only)

Royal Mail
(80%)

Access
(2%) Revenue

‘Access

(20%)

Royal Mail
(98%)

29
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Part 2.

The issues

30
Post matters

This section describes the relevance of the universal postal service in the 21"
century and the views of customers about the service which they currently
receive.

Summary

» The universal service has a strong social and economic rationale.

> It involves the collection and delivery of letters to any of the UK’s 28 million
business and residential addresses on six days per week.

» Without the universal service, consumers in different parts of the country
would have a different level of service and different prices.

> Residential consumers place a high value on the uniform tariff and a six-day
collection and delivery service.

» The pattern of our lives and work has been changing. As recipients,
consumers want more flexible services which deliver at their convenience.

> Although some customers are using the service less, others remain dependent
on it for their communication and business needs.

» Most small businesses are dependent on Royal Mail’s services. We would
expect them to share in the benefits of competition over time.

> Large businesses have seen prices fall since 2005, as their choice of postal
service providers has increased.

» Competition has brought clear benefits and is encouraging Royal Mail to
provide a more efficient service that consumers want.

31

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The universal
service continues
to have a strong
economic and
social rationale.

What is the universal service?

23.

Consumers value mail — as they do energy or water — not only when using
the service, but also because the service is available to use at any time, as
and when needed. The universal postal service provides customers with
that guarantee. Box 1 gives a detailed description. There are two
essential features.

» The price of the service must be affordable. In the UK, the price of

sending a letter must be the same between any two points in the
country, regardless of the distance covered.

The universal service ensures communications across all 28 million
business and household addresses in the UK", regardless of their
location, on six days a week. That requires a national network of
collection points, mail centres, distribution centres and delivery
offices.

What difference does it make?

24,

A national network and uniform tariff are beneficial for the economy and
society in a number of ways.

» The national network strengthens social cohesion by ensuring that

everyone, whether in urban, rural or remote areas, has an
accessible, reliable means of communication and the capacity to
send and receive physical goods. It also enables access to other
services, such as internet shopping.

The universal service is important to the UK economy for precisely
the same reason: it enables trade. Companies of all sizes rely on the
postal service to build their business, supply goods and receive
payment.

A uniform tariff protects those who use the postal service rarely or
who live in areas of low population density. They might otherwise
face a connection charge, higher prices or less convenient services.

An affordable service protects the ability of vulnerable consumers
and those with lower incomes to send and receive goods, without
the need for means testing.

Public opinion

3.

The public values the social and economic glue which the universal
service provides. Although only 13% of residential consumers are
familiar with the concept of the universal service, they place a high value

" There are currently an estimated 2,812 delivery addresses which are exceptions to this universal
availability on grounds of health and safety or accessibility. For example, there are some remote
islands where a ferry visits from the mainland only three times a week. These exceptions account for
roughly 0.01% of all addresses.

32

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Consumers
strongly support
the uniform tariff
and a next day
delivery.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Box 1: the Universal Service.

The universal service is a set of requirements set out in the European Postal
Services Directive, transposed in UK law by the Postal Services Act 2000. Some
aspects of the universal service are unique to the UK.

The universal service obligation applies to letters, packets and parcels up to 20
kg in weight. There are seven types of requirement:

© Collection. One clearance from each of the nation’s 115,000 post boxes
and 12,000 post offices per day on six days per week for letters, and five
for parcels. (The timing of collections is not regulated).

* Delivery. One delivery per day on six days a week for letters, and five for
parcels. (The timing of deliveries is not regulated).

© Point of delivery. Letters and packets must be delivered to the letterbox,
unless health and safety issues or access restrictions make it impossible.

© Reliability. The regulator sets 12 standards for quality of service in Royal
Mail’s licence.

* Accessibility. The number and density of access points ~ post boxes and
post offices - in the network.

*  Anaffordable price. In the UK, prices for products contained within the
universal service are controlled by the regulator.

© Auniform tariff. The price of a stamp is the same for any letter of a given
weight and size, regardless of how far it will travel within the UK.

The regulator, Postcomm, is responsible for deciding which of Royal Mail's
products should form part of the universal service. Under current regulations,
they include first and second class stamps, standard parcels (up to 20kg), special
and recorded delivery, redirections, poste restante, first and second class
metered mail, bulk mail products (first and second class Mailsort 1400 and
Cleanmail) and international delivery (both airmail and surface mail).

» the uniform tariff and its affordability. In research commissioned by
Postcomm”, 90% of respondents believed that a uniform tariff was
very important or fairly important: the highest rating in the survey. A
separate report by Postwatch”® reports a strong opposition to any
move away from uniform pricing.

> anext-day delivery service on six days per week. In the same survey,
82% of residential consumers, and 73% of businesses said that a six-
day service is either important, or fairly important. Similarly, 82% of
residential consumers also wanted a guaranteed next-day service to
be provided.

© The Needs of Users of the Postal Service: Customer Service Report, Postcomm 2007
“postal Universal Service Obligation: Value to the Citizen, Prepared for Postwatch by Accent, 2008

33
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

26. These results are supported by evidence submitted directly to the panel.
While there was debate about the mix of products which should be
covered by the universal service, most agreed that all other elements

(see Box 1) were still relevant.

In particular, there was overwhelming

support across all interest groups for deliveries on six days per week.
Organisations warned that reducing the number of deliveries would send
a damaging signal that mail is less relevant than other forms of
communication and undermine the business, rather than enhance it.
Moreover, those who send advertising mail - and so help to fund the
universal service — had a preference for retaining deliveries on Saturday
when people were more likely to be at home.

Figure 7: Recent survey evidence of the most valued aspects of the

postal service

Year of 2008"*

survey

Residential Mail gets to its

consumers destination on
time
Delivery directly
to the door
Universal price
Six-day collection
Six-day delivery

Business Mail gets to its

customers destination on

time

Guaranteed next
day delivery

Parcels get to
destination on
time

Universal price

Choice of 1* and
2” class

™ Accent 2008, op. cit.

2007"°

Affordable prices
for everyone

Same stamp price
irrespective of
where sent in the
UK.

Collections
Monday to
Saturday.

Deliveries
Monday-
Saturday.

Affordable prices
for everyone

Same stamp price
irrespective of
where mail is sent
in the UK.

Collections
Monday to
Saturday

Deliveries
Monday to
Saturday

*S The Needs of Users of the Postal Service - Customer Survey 2007, Postcomm
*° The Needs of Postal Users - Customer Survey 2006, Roland Berger for Postcomm, Postwatch and

Royal Mail

34

2006"°

Collection every
working day.

Delivery every
working day.

Affordability

Universal price.

Collection every
working day.

Delivery every
working day.

Affordability

Universal price.
Fewer and less
predictable
deliveries are
perceived asa
reduction in the
quality of service.

Residential consumers

27.

28.

2.

30.

31.

32.

At first sight, the views of residential consumers about the postal service
seem contradictory. When asked about Royal Mail’s services, the
majority are positive. Yet there remains a fundamental concern that
quality is falling. A clearer view emerges by differentiating between the
two roles of the residential consumer: as sender (14%) and recipient
(70%) of mail.

As senders, residential consumers are positive about Royal Mail’s service.
Taking into account that first and second class stamp prices have
increased by 7% and 14% respectively in real terms since 2005:

® 86%” (and 90% of those who live in rural areas) believe that Royal
Mail’s first class service provides good value for money.

» 84%" believe that second class mail offers good value for money.

Measured according to standards set by the regulator, Royal Mail’s
performance is at its highest on record. The company met eleven of its
twelve quality of service targets in 2006-7° (allowing for variations in
quality, mainly in London and some other major cities).

The introduction of a new cost-reflective pricing structure for letters,
based on weight and dimension (“Pricing in Proportion”) means that
consumers are more likely to need advice about sending their letters.
These changes have greatest impact on those who work and live in more
rural areas, as well as consumers unable to travel to the nearest post
office, including the elderly and those with disabilities.

As recipients, residential consumers have been affected directly by a
series of changes over recent years. Royal Mail reduced the number of
daily deliveries from two to one in 2003-4. In 2003, Royal Mail aimed to
complete the first delivery by 9.30 am. The company now aims to deliver
mail to 2.00 pm for most consumers, and 3.00 pm in outlying areas of the
country.

As the volume of packets increases, customers are least satisfied with the
arrangements for collecting those which arrive when no-one is at
home”®. Lifestyles have been changing over recent years, as more
households have two adults in employment. Working hours have been
increasing, as have daily commuting times. As people spend fewer hours
in the home, it becomes more likely that they will miss deliveries of large
packets, parcels or items which need a signature.

Changes in the pattern of deliveries are perceived by recipients of mail to
be a reduction in service. Similarly, the twelve quality of service targets
which Royal Mail must meet under its licence conditions are configured
to meet the needs of paying customers, rather than recipients.

"’ The Needs of Users of the Postal Service - Customer Survey 2007, Postcomm

*® The Needs of Users of the Postal Service - Customer Survey 2007, Postcomm

** Royal Mail’s performance in 2007-8 was affected significantly by industrial action
? accent 2008, op. cit.

35

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Small and medium-sized enterprises

33.
34.
35.
36.
Most small 37.
businesses are
dependent on
Royal Mail’s
services.
38.

7! Small and Medium Sized Enterp1

Small and medium-sized businesses make a major contribution to the UK
economy. They account for 59.2% of the UK’s private-sector
employment and 51.5%” of private-sector revenues.

In spite of advances in technology and on-line banking, many small
businesses are dependent on the postal network to organise financial
transactions. Over 50% of companies surveyed by the Federation of
Small Businesses” send over three quarters of their bills and invoices
through the post. When profit margins are tight, the ability to receive
payment and avoid penalties for the late settlement of bills is vital. With
that in mind, small companies want later collections and earlier,
predictable delivery times. The length of time between the delivery and
last collection is particularly important for sole traders so that they can
exploit the working day to maximum effect and, in particular, bank
cheques promptly.

Surveys show high levels of satisfaction for the quality of service offered
at today’s prices. Some 83% of small businesses believe that first class
mail offers good value for money. The response is higher still for
medium-sized enterprises: 92%.’? But they do not believe that the
service fully meets their particular needs. Like residential consumers,
smaller businesses place most value on regular, consistent collections
and deliveries“. And in some cases, recent changes in collection and
delivery have made it more difficult to carry out their business.

Recent research” shows that small businesses are least content with the
timing of deliveries. Half of small and medium-sized enterprises whose
delivery times varied experienced a difference of over three hours
between the earliest and latest time their post arrived. Concerns about
the variable nature of delivery times outweigh those about the time of
the delivery. There is contradictory evidence, though, as to whether
small businesses would be willing to pay more to secure earlier and more
reliable deliveries.

‘As senders, many small businesses use Royal Mail meters. In doing so,
they qualify for a discount of 2p for each first class letter under 100
grams handled by Royal Mail (and 3p for every second class letter).
There are similar discounts of up to 15% for packets. This is a significant
improvement on the experience of small businesses immediately before
liberalisation of the postal market.

Relatively few small businesses have a choice of provider, yet. Meters
are configured only for Royal Mail products. And research by
Postwatch”® suggests that only 3% post more than 250 items per week:
the current threshold for an alternative carrier to take the business. Asa
result, the vast majority of smaller businesses still rely on stamps and use
post offices as the main access point for postal services.

's Statistics for the UK 2007, BERR Statistical Release, July 2008.

?? Federation of Small Businesses, op. cit.

* Source: Postcomm 2007 FDS, op. cit.

4 small and Medium-Sized Enterprises’ Current and Future Postal Needs, prepared for Postwatch by RS
Consulting, May 2008.

?° Postwatch 2008, op. cit.

?* Ibid. Statistics for small businesses relate to companies with between two and 250 employees. They
exclude sole traders. Postcomm’s Business Customer Survey suggests that the number is substantially
higher, but by defining small businesses according to their expenditure on post, rather than by the
number of employees.

36

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Large companies
benefit from lower
postal prices than
2005, and more
choice of providers.

39,

40.

This is, however, early days for the postal market after liberalisation. We
would expect small businesses to see greater benefits from postal
competition over time. The threshold for contracts with alternative
carriers has already reduced significantly from 4000 items per week in
2003, to 250 now. And as many as 36% of small businesses have mailings
of over 250 items, on average 28 times per year.”” Alternative carriers
are already offering to collect any amount of unsorted mail with pre-
sorted letters or parcels. It seems likely that more small businesses will
take advantage of the choice in services in future.

If a wider range of small businesses is to benefit from competition, there
will need to be more intermediate companies to collect and consolidate
mail on their behalf before feeding it into the Royal Mail network. The
growth of consolidators would give small businesses a better opportunity
to say what they need from the postal service, based on their location
and the volume of their mail. Royal Mail should consider how it might
encourage this practice of consolidation which is common in many other
European countries.

Box 2: Extending the benefits of competition to small businesses

Physical consolidation

First Post builds on the document service for solicitors in Scotland. Some 60%
of solicitors’ mail is destined for recipients outside the profession. First Post
consolidates these letters from its 240 exchanges before handing the mail to
TNT for sorting and, ultimately, delivery through Royal Mail. The service
regularly handles over 15,000 items per day. The company has plans to offer its
services more widely to small and medium-sized businesses in future.

Enabling greater access
One Post has designed a service which extends the benefits of competition to.
smaller customers. It uses software to compare the cost of using different
postal companies, then manages the contract on its client’s behalf. One Post is
able to use the combined buying power of its customers to achieve better
discounts than would be available if customers were acting individually.

Electronic consolidation

A number of companies offer ‘hybrid’ solutions" (TNT-it; iMail and Viapost)
which are accessible to smaller businesses regardless of the number of items
sent. Customers send their letters to the service provider electronically. The
provider checks the postal address is valid and sends it to the printing company
closest to the recipient. The price of the service covers the cost of paper,
envelopes, printing and postage.

Large businesses

41.

Since the 50 companies which make the most regular and extensive use
of the postal service account for 40% of mail volumes, their business is
the subject of keen competition. Since liberalisation, they have a choice
of services, greater flexibility in negotiating contracts and greater
assurance about the quality of services. Those which use alternative
carriers are able to track their mail at all stages from collection until it is
transferred to Royal Mail.

*” Source: Postwatch 2008, Needs of SMES research.

37

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
42.

43.

44.

45.

The impact of liberalisa

46.

47.

Large businesses have also benefited from liberalisation through lower
prices. On average, Royal Mail’s prices for second and third class bulk
mail products have fallen by 1% and 3% respectively since 2005”. Across
the market as a whole, it is estimated” that prices are 5% lower than
might otherwise have been expected without competition.

The fact that large businesses have been the first to benefit from
liberalisation reflects experience in other markets which have been
‘opened to competition.

» Large companies help sustain the universal service by sending the
majority of mail in the UK.

® Discounts for large businesses help them keep down the price of
their products and services to residential consumers.

Some large companies which continue to use Royal Mail have told the
panel that the company is still not customer-oriented, in spite of
competition. They want to negotiate contracts which suit the particular
requirements and constraints of their business, but have found this
difficult to achieve. They are confused about the flexibility which Royal
Mail has under the regulatory regime, after talking to both the regulator
and the company.

While large companies acknowledge the benefits of downstream access,
some believe that the system has done all it can for them. Having taken
advantage of discounted upstream prices, they are looking for new ways
to reduce the costs of their business. They believe that there are
opportunities to do so in the delivery of mail. Yet, having exercised their
choice in selecting a different upstream provider, these companies no
longer have any direct leverage over the cost of Royal Mail’s delivery
operations.

in

After the publication of our interim report, some headlines reported that
there had been no real benefits from liberalisation. That is not our view.
The competitive postal market is still in the early stages of development.
Benefits are already visible for the largest customers. Over time, we
would expect both smaller businesses and residential consumers to
benefit from choice, a more efficient service and new products.

Others have suggested that liberalisation has threatened the universal
service. Again, we do not believe that this is the case. On the contrary,
competition has brought clear benefits and is encouraging Royal Mail to
offer a more efficient service which consumers want. It is conceivable
that competition could present risks for the universal service in future.
But as of today, it is not competition within the postal sector, but
competition much more broadly across the communications sector,
which poses the greatest threat to the universal service.

** Royal Mail's first submission to the panel.
*° The Benefits of Competition in the UK Mail Market, Europe Economics, March 2008.

38

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The market has changed

This section considers the major development facing the postal sector — the
digital revolution — and its implications for the future.

Summary

» For the first time on record, the volume of letters sent in the United Kingdom
is declining each year as consumers make greater use of electronic media.

» Until now, the impact of this structural decline has been moderated by
economic growth. As the economy slows, volumes could fall by as much as 5-
7% per year.

» The digital age also brings opportunities for the postal service. Goods ordered
on-line are delivered at a higher value than letters. And new technology
heralds new services.

» Like all universal service providers, Royal Mail will need to become more
efficient and diversify, as traditional revenues decline and substitutes
constrain their ability to raise prices.

> There is a positive future for the postal service, provided that companies are

able to respond quickly to the changing needs of consumers and embrace the
opportunities which new technology brings.

39

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The letters market
is facing an
unprecedented
decline.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

The digital revolution

48. The UK letters market is now in structural decline*. Evidence suggests
that letter volumes reached their highest point around 2005, and have
been falling since then. In each of the three years from 2005-6, fewer
letters were handled by the postal service.

Figure 8

UK letters market, 2000 to 2012

‘Actual Data ! Future Scenarios
100 1
Bo os
fg % ‘Actual Data
5 Turning Point
3 90 Royal Mail base case
28 —=
Bis I Posconn's managed
{ decline scenario
80 —
!
75 '
I
1
Se
zo00 2002 2004-2006 -«2008.:«2010 «2012
. . an 31
49. This continuous decline is unprecedented” and represents a

fundamental change in the letters market. Our experience in the UK is
consistent with trends in mature mail markets right across the world.

Figure 9: Reduction in addressed letter volumes”

Country Growth in 2006-07
UK -3.2%
France -1.0%
Germany -1.4%
Netherlands 4.4%
Italy -4.4%
United States -1.8%

*° UK addressed letter volumes declined by 3.2% over the year to March 2008. Early indications
suggest that volume decline could be greater still in 2008-9. Royal Mail’s results for the first half of
2008-9 highlighted a decline of 4%.

** Data available to the review panel begins in 1970.

* Company data of national operators, based on the 2007 financial year. Royal Mail figures are based
‘on the 2007-8 accounts.
The explosion in
digital media is the
main factor behind
the recent fall in
the volume

of letters.

Cyclical change

50.

Letter volumes are partly a function of economic performance. Until
recently, there has been a straightforward correlation between economic
growth and the growth in letter volumes. People send more mail in
response to increased economic activity. Conversely, as the economy
slows down, businesses look for ways to reduce costs and letter volumes
grow more slowly. Analysis suggests that a 1% change in GDP leads to
around a 1% change in mail growth, other things being equal”.

Structural change

51.

L+y

53.

In the last few years, however, a new phenomenon has complicated this
simple trend. Broadband internet, email, mobile telephony, text
messaging and digital broadcasting offer alternative ways for people to
keep in touch, carry out business transactions and advertise. Compared
with mail, they are immediate, flexible and have a low, often zero,
marginal cost.

Figure 10

Household penetration of key telecoms technologies, 2002-8

Fines
telephony
Nobis
tatephory
tarot
Broadband
internet

Propesticn of housettds (1)

042002 42003» Qk 2008 §=— 1 2006 =a 2007 a 2008

As Figure 10 shows, access to alternative media has increased
significantly over the last six years. So has the extent to which alternative
media are used. Amongst adult internet users, 69% go on-line every day,
or almost every day. Some 59.1 billion text messages were sent in the UK
in 2007, a growth of 36% over 2006".

The rate of substitution has become the most significant factor behind
market decline, driving a “wedge” between economic growth and letter
volumes. This is the sign of structural change affecting the postal market
(Figure 11).

* Royal Mail's first submission to the panel. Analysis is based on regression techniques.
* The Communications Market, Ofcom, 2008

41

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Figure 11

Growth in letters, compared with economic growth, 1984-2007

% per annum

Technology
Wedge

Economie growth
plus nousenold growin

CELE PLE EEEEE

Challenges and opportunities

54,

55.

56.

There are many factors which are likely to affect demand for postal
services. They include the speed of the digital revolution and the rate at
which new services become available; perceptions about the security of
email transactions, particularly in relation to financial, legal or official
matters; our understanding of climate change, and the carbon emissions
from IT and postal services; the development of computer hardware; and
the extent to which different age and demographic groups will prefer to
use particular forms of communication. These are difficult to predict
with any accuracy.

With more difficult economic times ahead, however, we can expect that
e-substitution and slower economic growth will both exert downward
pressure on mail volumes. This decline will have profound implications
for all postal operators, and particularly Royal Mail.

The digital revolution brings a number of challenges.

> Transactional mail. Large companies, such as utilities, are offering
their customers financial incentives to receive statements and pay
bills on-line, or by direct debit, as part of their campaign to reduce
costs. Large companies are likely to use bulk mail products for a
number of years yet, while they remain committed to offering
customers a choice between email and paper statements. But in the
long-term, transactional mail seems very likely to be in decline.

» Social mail. Mobile telephones are now widely used as a means of
sending short, immediate messages to family and friends at a low
marginal cost. On average, 67 text messages were sent from each UK
mobile connection every month. This compares with 29 text
messages per connection in France and 20 in Germany™. Some 80%
of adult broadband users also make use of email. That said, greetings

* The Communications Market, Ofcom, 2008

42

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
New forms of
communication
bring opportunities
for the postal
service, as well as
challenges.

cards account for a large proportion of social mail. And most
consumers continue to attach value to giving and receiving greetings
cards in paper rather than electronic form.

But there are opportunities, too.

>» Fulfilment. UK consumers spent £42 billion on-line in 2007: 10% of

all retail sales in the UK*®. This generated 860 million parcels. With
on-line spending expected to double to 20% of retail sales (around
£78 billion) by 2010, the growth in packets handled by the postal
service seems secure. Packets have relatively high margins,
compared to letters.

Publications. Some 700 million copies of magazines are circulated
through the postal service each year. The demand for magazines,
like newspapers, is falling, owing to the availability of information on
the internet. That said, sales by subscription are increasing, relative
to copies sold by newsagents. And because journals are more easily
read in physical form, and can be passed to others, publishing
companies believe that the scope for e-substitution is limited.
Customers often use printed catalogues to make decisions about
what to buy, before ordering on line.

Advertising mail. Companies using large mailshots to generate new
customers have seen the return on their investment fall in recent
years. Advertising companies suggest that websites have become
more attractive as a modern and less expensive means of advertising.
But falling volumes need not imply reduced revenue for postal
companies. The combination of digital print and sophisticated data
handling offers the potential to personalise mail to an unprecedented
degree. Carefully targeted advertising campaigns have strong
potential and reduce waste. Moreover, mail has a strong role to play
when businesses want to communicate with their existing customers.
Although one-page leaflets can easily be transferred to the internet,
longer publications with colour images, such as catalogues, tend to
be more successful in print. Mail also offers a guarantee that
companies’ messages will be received, at a time when filters are
becoming increasingly successful in blocking unsolicited email.

* Interactive Media in Retail Group (IMRG), April 2007

43

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The value of the
market could
increase, if postal
companies can
capitalise on new
opportunities.

58.

Figure 12

Indicative stages of the life cycle for different mail applications

Advertising mail (+/-2:
vertisng mall (1°29 at mail (1.2%)

Publications
Business ta busines: -2%
Business to consumers: #3%

Transactional mail (-2%6)

Fulfilment (+15%)

High Growth Maturity

Overall, evidence seems to suggest that new volumes created by
e-commerce are unlikely to match the reduction in volumes of
transactional, advertising and social mail. But, because unit prices for
fulfilment are higher than for traditional mail, carriers which are able to
capitalise on the opportunities that e-fulfilment presents are more likely
to prosper.

A positive future

59.

60.

Mail must be a 61.

service of choice,
not a service of
last resort.

Since change brings opportunities, as well as challenges, we believe that
there is a positive future for postal services.

Mail has unique properties. Many regard post as a more personal
medium than its electronic alternatives, and more likely to be opened by
the recipient. Many items currently sent by post are difficult or
impossible to transmit in digital form. There will always be a need for a
physical delivery service accessible to consumers in all parts of the UK.
And an efficient national delivery network is a crucially important asset,
particularly in a world which is just beginning to come to terms with the
implications of climate change.

These attributes can provide the foundation for a successful future if, and
only if, the postal service is dedicated to meeting the needs of its
customers. Mail must be a delivery service of choice, not merely a safety
net or a service of last resort. A thriving postal market must appeal to a
wide range of consumers. It will:

> be obsessive about customers, recognising that the needs of the
recipient are as important as the those of the sender.

» be reliable and convenient, supported by an efficient national
network which draws fully on the skills and local knowledge of
delivery staff.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
62.

» offer competitive prices. Services must be affordable and represent
good value for money.

> be sustainable, with a low environmental impact, and without the
need for continued subsidy by taxpayers.

> be innovative, seizing new opportunities in the communications and
logistics markets to offer new and better services.

With this in mind, a successful postal service of the future will be very
different from today’s. It will be more capital intensive, less labour
intensive, and will embrace new technology. Services will be delivered by
companies which operate across historic market boundaries and which
collaborate with others to compete more effectively, enhancing choice
and reliability. There will be a much stronger focus on efficiency to
reduce costs and increase value for consumers. There will be greater
flexibility to innovate and to respond more quickly to opportunities in the
market to meet customer needs.

45

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Box 3: Opportunities for innovation in the postal sector

The digital revolution brings the prospect of greater innovation in a sector
where competition is currently focused predominantly on price. New ideas may
emerge by using new technology in at least four ways:

> Complementary services. Mail is often considered to be in competition
with other media. Yet internet advertising can create new volumes such as
the despatch of catalogues, which in turn lead to e-commerce and the
need for fulfilment. Shoppers often rely on a combination of printed
brochures (delivered by post) and on-line information when making their
choices. There may be opportunities for postal companies to work in
partnership with internet companies, broadcasters and others in planning
major advertising campaigns.

> Hybrid solutions. Some mail companies are looking to exploit the
advantages of the internet to reduce the costs of transporting information
in physical form. Senders can email letters so that they are printed as close
as possible to the recipient before being transferred to Royal Mail's
network for delivery.

> Green solutions. As awareness of climate change grows, customers are
looking for ways to reduce the impact which their activities have on the
environment. TNT Post has developed the first carbon neutral initiative for
addressed mail in conjunction with The CarbonNeutral Company. The
service is made up of four elements: carbon evaluation, carbon reduction,
offset and the use of a CarbonNeutral logo which signifies a mailing is
carbon-neutral.

> Increasing the quality of service for recipients of mail. Currently, choice
lies mainly with the sender of mail who pays for the service. Mobile
telecommunications, and the use of encrypted data on letters, provide new
opportunities to offer the recipient greater flexibility about the timing and
location of delivery. More flexible solutions may enable the postal
company to increase the rate at which it is able to deliver packages at the
first attempt, reducing costs.

For example, Packstation is a service in Germany to solve the problem of
parcels being delivered when their recipients are not at home. Customers
can opt to have any parcel delivered to a local Packstation instead of their
home address. As soon as their parcel arrives, they are notified by text
message or email. The service never closes. So customers can call in at
any time to suit their needs. On entering the customer code, the
compartment containing their parcel will open automatically. Customers
have nine days to make the collection, and are automatically sent regular
reminders.

46
Royal Mail faces severe difficulties

Royal Mail is the only company with the national delivery network necessary to
provide the universal service. This section considers the company’s ability to
respond to the growth in digital media and the implications for the universal
service.

Summary

> Royal Mail delivers 99% of all items posted in the UK. No other company is
likely to have an equivalent national network in the foreseeable future.

> Royal Mail’s financial viability is vital to the future of the universal service.

> Royal Mail needs to respond urgently to the structural decline in the UK letters
market caused by the growth of digital media.

® Royal Mail’s ability to respond is constrained by five factors:

- Inefficiency. Royal Mail is much less efficient and less profitable than its
main European peers.

- Pension deficit. Royal Mail’s historic pension deficit is one of
the largest in the UK, and is highly volatile.

- Pricing. Increasing postal prices is no longer guaranteed to generate
sufficient revenues to offset falling volumes.

- Labour relations. The relationship between management and the
Communications Workers Union is extremely difficult.

- Relationship with the regulator. So too is the relationship between the
company and its regulator, Postcomm.
» The combination of these factors led to an operating loss at Royal Mail in

2007-8. The universal service was loss-making for the first time.

» Royal Mail’s financial position is precarious, the universal service is under
threat and the status quo is untenable.

47

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Royal Mail is likely
to be the only
company with full
coverage across
the UK for the
foreseeable future.

The effect of
competition from
digital media on
Royal Mail is much
more significant
than the impact of
postal
competition.

The significance of Royal Mail

63.

64.

65.

Royal Mail is the only company which operates a network capable of
delivering letters and packages to any of the 28 million business and
household addresses nationwide. Royal Mail’s financial health and ability
to respond to its customers are critically important to the universal
service and, therefore, the future of the sector as a whole.

Competition has developed in the collection, sorting and transportation
of mail, more quickly than anyone predicted”. There is, however,
virtually no competition in providing a full “end to end” service for
addressed mail in the UK. Almost all letters processed by alternative
carriers are injected into Royal Mail’s network at one of its 69 mail
centres. Asa result, around 99%” of letters sent to addresses in the UK
are delivered through letterboxes by postal workers employed by Royal
Mail.

In our view, end-to-end competition (collecting and delivering letters)
may emerge in future, particularly if there are changes to the VAT
regime. But it is likely to be limited to the most profitable routes. Even
the most optimistic forecasts would leave Royal Mail with a substantial
share of the market.

The challenge posed by structural decline

66.

After a long period of growth, the volume of letters in the UK mail market
has been declining since 2005. In 2007-8, Royal Mail handled three
million fewer letters a day than it did in the previous year: a decline of
3.2%. As a result, Royal Mail’s revenues have fallen over the last two
years. This is the result of three trends””:

> Royal Mail is facing competition from digital media. The company
estimates that the substitution from postal services to alternative
digital media reduced its operating profit by £500 million in 2007-8.

> After liberalisation, alternative carriers are collecting, sorting and
transporting 20% of mail, before handing it to Royal Mail for
delivery. The introduction of postal competition is estimated to have
reduced Royal Mail’s operating profit by £100 million in 2007-8.

> Customers are moving to cheaper products: from first class to
second class mail, for example. This is estimated to have reduced
Royal Mails operating profit by £160 million last year.

In addition, the impact of structural change is now being accompanied by
volume decline as a result of the cyclical downturn in the economy.

In 2005, Postcomm’s projected that access competition would have reached 2.6 billion items by

2007-8. The actual figure was 4.1 billion items.
** Estimates vary. This figure is quoted from Postcomm’s Strategy Review: Emerging Views. Royal Mail
calculates its share of the end-to-end market to be 98%.

* See Annex D and the discussion of VAT in Part 4 of this report.

Calculations are based on modelling by Royal Mail. Numbers are first-order effects and do not

include any changes to pricing plans, regulation or transformation plans which might result if
e-substitution and postal competition did not exist. The £500 million digital media substitution and
£100 million postal competition effects relate to switching estimated to have occurred since 2005-6.
The numbers do not include the positive impact that e-fulfilment revenues generate.

48

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
67.

Ina declining 68.

market, Royal Mail
will have to “run to
stand still”.

Liberalisation has had a relatively limited impact on Royal Mail’s financial
position because the company continues to deliver, and charge for,
almost all items over the final mile. The effect of competition between
post and other communications media has been much more significant.

In a declining market, Royal Mail will need to reduce costs in order to
become efficient, profitable and remain a viable business: “running to
stand still”.

Box 4: Running to stand still - the imperative for efficiency

When people send fewer letters, Royal Mail’s fixed costs are distributed
across a smaller volume of mail, and so the cost of delivering each letter
increases. Unless Royal Mail can increase its prices by a similar amount,
falling volumes of mail can rapidly lead to a situation in which each
letter — and the company — is making a loss.

To avoid this outcome and maintain a viable financial position, Royal
Mail must reduce its costs wherever possible. It must also ensure that
more of its essential costs are variable in line with changes in demand
for postal services.

Reducing costs in a declining market is particularly challenging because
the benefits of a reduction in costs are continually eroded by falling
volumes. If Royal Mail is to achieve a more secure financial position, it
will have to cut costs not only in line with the falling market, but more
quickly than the rate at which volume is declining.

Royal Mail’s ability to respond to market decline

69.

Royal Mail is unable to respond sufficiently quickly to the declining
market. It suffers from five main constraints: inefficiency, a large and
volatile pension deficit, pricing, poor labour relations, and its difficult
relationship with the regulator.

Inefficiency

To make its 70.

letters business
profitable, Royal
Mail has no
option but to

reduce costs. 71.

Between 2002 and 2005, Royal Mail removed between £460 million and
£600 million in costs’ from its business. The Group’s workforce was
reduced by over 40,000 employees’, the majority from Royal Mail. Over
the next seven years, the company aims to reduce costs by a further £1.2
billion. This represents around a fifth of Royal Mail’s total current costs.

In its accounts for 2006-07, Royal Mail estimated that it was 40% less
efficient than its competitors. There are five reasons:

Estimates vary. Postcomm estimates that the (annual) savings were £460 million. Royal Mail’s

estimate is £600 million.
” Royal Mail Group embarked on its Renewal Plan between 2002 and 2005. During that period, the
company’s workforce was reduced by approximately 25,000 employees. There have since been
further reductions of 16,000. Both these figures exclude outsourced workers.

49

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

® The network of mail centres and delivery offices. European
companies such as TNT and Deutsche Post began a radical
restructuring of their networks in the early 1990s. In marked
contrast, Royal Mail’s distribution network is largely unchanged.
Since the commencement of the Renewal Plan in 2002, the number
of mail centres has reduced from 71 to 69, and the number of main
delivery offices from 1,377 to 1,365°°.

» Automation. Letters are prepared for delivery in two, separate
procedures: walk-sorting, and walk-sequencing. In the first, Royal
Mail uses machines in its mail centres to sort 70% of letters into
groups which correspond with the addresses covered by each postal
worker's ‘walk’. This is a substantial improvement from 50% just two
years ago, but is still markedly lower than the 95% managed by
leading European operators. In the second procedure, walk-
sequencing, letters are placed in the correct sequence for delivery.
At Royal Mail, this is carried out entirely by hand. It takes each postal
worker between 2-3 hours each morning before starting his or her
delivery round. The leading European companies use walk-
sequencing machines to perform the same job automatically for
around 85%" of their mail. As a result, their costs are significantly
lower. Royal Mail is in the process of buying and installing walk-
sequencing machines across its network, and aims to sequence 75%
of letters automatically by 2012-13.

Figure 13

Royal Mail’s automation in context

00

Percentage of letters
sorted by machine

0%

Walk-sorting Walk-sequencing
Leading EU poyal Mal Leading EU i
operators Revel Mal operators Rove! Mall

“ Source: Royal Mail. These are net movements and exclude reference to the Scale Payment Delivery
Offices. The figures for mail centres reflect the closure of Paddington, London North and Slough. In
relation to delivery offices, offices have opened as well as closed.

“ Source: Royal Mail.

50
® Working practices. Over time, the accumulated effect of local
agreements has resulted in various working practices which restrict
Royal Mail’s efficiency.

e Early finishes. It has been common practice that postal
workers go home when they have finished their round. In
the summer or on certain days of the week when volumes
are low, this can be up to three hours before their paid
hours have ended. If, however, additional time is needed to
complete a round, overtime can be claimed or the round
not completed.

© Covering for absence. Employees will on occasion not carry
out a colleague’s deliveries without being paid overtime to
do so, even when their own workloads are relatively light.
So a postal worker who is paid until 2.00 pm and finishes his
or her own route at 11.00 am may still claim overtime to
cover a colleague’s deliveries, even though they could be
completed within paid hours.

* Equipment. In some locations, the CWU has instructed its
members not to use new technology (such as machines for
sorting larger letters and hand-held devices to track mail)
until there is both a national and local agreement about
their use.

© Demarcation. Employees in some mail centres have been
known to refuse to work in the delivery office, for example,
even though both are on the same site.

The Pay and Modernisation agreement accepted by the CWU
membership in November 2007 (following industrial action earlier in
the year) was intended to address these practices and to pave the
way for the modernisation of Royal Mail. Some progress has been
made. But changes in some mail centres and delivery offices
continue to be resisted by local CWU representatives and some of
the workforce in spite of the national agreement.

» Pay. Research conducted for the current price control found
“substantial evidence to suggest that, on average across the country,
Royal Mail currently pays above market average rates”. This study
found that base pay for operational grades is between 6% and 25%
above median base pay in comparable roles across all sectors, and
above the top quartile base pay in some sectors*®. The most recent
economic data continues to support this view. Full-time pay is 20%
higher for Royal Mail employees than other postal workers*®, Figure

Future Efficient Costs Of Royal Mail's Regulated Mail Activities, LECG, August 2005.

*° Source: Annual Survey Of Hours And Earnings, Office for National Statistics, 2007. Analysis based on
@ comparison of the gross earnings (including overtime) of male full-time workers in national postal
companies, versus male full-time workers involved in the collection, transport and delivery of letters
and mail-type parcels and packages by firms other than national postal companies.

51

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
72.

Figure 14

Labour costs as a percentage of revenues in 2007
Postal companies across Western Europe

2

(cama)

14 shows that labour costs at Royal Mail Group were among the
highest of European postal companies”.

» Ongoing pension contributions. Royal Mail is the sponsoring

employer for one of the UK’s largest funded defined benefit pension
schemes: the Royal Mail Pension Plan. The scheme has 452,000
members of whom 161,000 are current employees. At 20% of
pensionable pay, the cost of current service contributions is
significantly higher than the average for defined benefit schemes of
16.1% and around three times more expensive than schemes based
on defined contributions”. To ensure that pension arrangements are
sustainable, the company consulted and decided to close the scheme
to new members with effect from 1 April 2008. Existing members
are able to continue to accrue new benefits, but with an increase in
the pensionable age from 60 to 65, and the calculation of benefits on
the basis of a career average salary. New employees will be eligible
to join a new defined contribution scheme. Over the next few years,
these changes are expected to reduce Royal Mail’s costs associated
with current service to levels that are broadly consistent with
industry averages.

All of these factors contributed to Royal Mail’s operating loss of £3
million in 2007-8. The company was the least profitable postal
company” amongst its Western European peers, and the only one to
make an operating loss.

“” Source: Deutsche Bank, based on company data at a group level for the 2007 financial year. Royal
Mail Group figures are based on the 2007-8 accounts.

“® This is the expected cost of new benefits accrued by employees within the current year.

* Source: Occupational Pension Schemes Survey, Office for National Statistics, 2007. Average private
sector employer contribution rates: defined benefit schemes (closed to new members), 16.1%;
defined contribution schemes (open to new members), 6.4%.

° Source: Deutsche Bank, based on company data at the mail business unit level for the 2007 financial
year. Royal Mail figures are based on the 2007-8 accounts. Figures for Correos, Post Danmark and De
Post-La Poste relate to the group level.

52

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The company’s
handling of letters
and packages is
much less efficient
than its European
peers. That is
reflected in poor
operating profit.

Royal Mail’s
inefficiency has a
much bigger
impact on
profitability than
postal
competition.

73.

1

Figure 15
Operating profit margins of Western European postal companies,
2007 (%)

$453 ww aH seas ig &

Figure 16 assesses how a lack of efficiency, pension payments and
competi
performance today, and that of a modernised Royal Mail achieving an
operating profit margin of 13.5%. Market decline is not featured within
the diagram, because it is a common challenge facing all European
operators.

in each contribute to the gap between Royal Mail’s

» While access competition has added to Royal Mail’s pressures, Figure

16 shows that its impact has been limited. Without competition in
the postal market, Royal Mail might have made a 1.4% operating
profit margin.

The company’s operating profit margin would have been significantly
higher — 4.3% — were it not for pension costs having been set at levels
well above industry standards. This has clearly been a significant
constraint on the business and has been addressed by recent
amendments to the pension scheme.

It is the other sources of Royal Mail’s inefficiency, compared with
leading European counterparts, which have the most significant
impact on the company’s operating profitability and long-term
financial health. The comparison suggests that Royal Mail could have
achieved a 7.8% operating profit margin if it had reduced costs and
generated new sources of revenue to the same extent as modernised
companies in The Netherlands and Germany, for example.

percentage has been used for indicative purposes, as a rounded average of the margins

achieved in 2007 by TNT and Deutsche Post, widely considered to be “best in class” among European
postal services having modernised their operations over the last 15 years.

53

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Figure 16,
Factors affecting Royal Mail's operating profit margin in 2007-8 and their
relative significance

135%

(excludes deficit)

Pension deficit

The company is 74,

bearing a much
higher level of risk
associated with
the pension deficit
than many larger,
financially stronger
companies.

75.

76.

Royal Mail has taken action to reduce the cost of future pensions
provision. But it must also make contributions to address the deficit: the
gap between the assets of the pension plan and the forecast liabilities.
At the time of the last triennial valuation, the deficit was calculated at
£3.4 billion”. In 2007-8, Royal Mail’s cash deficit payment was £284
million, with payments expected to continue for the next 15 years. In
spite of this, the deficit has increased by £2.5 billion (some 75%) since
2006, with the most recent estimate putting it at £5.9 billion. Even
before this recent increase, the deficit was among the largest of any
reported by a UK company, as is illustrated in Figure 17°.

Although consumers bear part of the cost through higher prices, the
burden of the deficit payments contributes significantly to the current
financial pressures on Royal Mail, and makes it more difficult for the
company to compete in a liberalised market. The recent growth in the
size of the deficit means that the size of its contributions may have to be
increased (or the repayment period extended) following the next
triennial valuation due in 2009.

The volatility of the deficit is also highly significant for a business of Royal
Mail’s size. The company is bearing a much higher level of risk associated
with the pension deficit than many much larger and financially stronger
companies. On an accounting basis, its pension deficit is over six times
larger than the cash generated by its business operations (before

© Deficit calculated on an actuarial basis as at 31 March 2006.

* Royal Mail Pension Plan Annual Report and Accounts, 2007-8. The deficit is calculated on an
actuarial basis as at 31 March 2008. Most of the deterioration is the result of a fall in index-linked
bond yields, leading to a higher assessment of the value of the Plan’s liabilities.

“* Accounting for Pensions 2008, Lane, Clark and Peacock. The comparison is based on published
accounting deficits. Few schemes or companies publish their actuarial deficits, meaning that
comparisons are only possible on the basis of accounting deficits calculated on standard methodology
(FRS17/IAS19)

54

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Astrategy based
on raising prices
carries risk.

An aggressive rise
in prices could
precipitate further
decline.

financing and investing activities). Both the size of the deficit and its
volatility adversely affect the company’s ability to finance and invest in its
core business. Because of the size of the deficit, this is likely to remain a
problem for the foreseeable future.

Figure 17

Royal Mail’s pension deficit in context
Largest accounting deficits among FTSE 100 companies (Emillion)

3500
3,000
2,500
2,000
+500

son

Pricing

77.

78.

Price rises are becoming less effective at generating additional revenue
for Royal Mail. When Royal Mail increased the price of its products in
2007-8 by a weighted average of 5%, for example, revenues fell slightly”®.
This effect can be explained by a combination of factors. As prices rise:

» some customers will decide to use electronic media or give their
business to one of Royal Mail’s postal competitors”.

®» others will opt for less expensive postal products, such as second
class mail.

To generate additional revenue, price rises must be sufficient to offset
the revenue lost as the number of letters falls. The fact that prices in the
UK are low relative to many other European countries suggests that
there is scope for an increase (see Figure 18). Yet any aggressive increase
in prices could prompt a faster movement away from mail to electronic
media, compounding the problem of declining volumes and revenues
rather than solving it. This places even more emphasis on the need to
reduce costs.

*° Royal Mail Annual Report and Accounts, 2007-8. Net cash inflow from operating activities: £450
million. 1AS19 deficit: £2.9 billion.

** Royal Mail Annual Report and Accounts, 2007-8, page 5

*’ Business customers are more likely to substitute away from mail than social customers as they have
a greater choice of alternatives. (Access competitors do not currently serve social users, for example).
Consequently, the elasticity of demand for business products like Mailsort tends to be higher than for
‘captive’ social products like stamps.

** There is uncertainty about the stability of price elasticities associated with large changes in price.
While Royal Mail can perhaps be confident that small changes in price of say 1%, will generate

55

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Labour relations
are extremely
difficult

Figure 18

EU first class stamp prices, by weight

I
—

i
E
:
i
a

Nor Den Fin” Ski ta Sue Ger Als he Fra Bel UK Net Spr Sip
country

Labour relations

79.

80.

Any business facing such significant changes as Royal Mail needs effective
engagement with the unions. In its submission to the panel, the
Communications Workers Union recognised the need for Royal Mail to
modernise its operations by investing “to increase levels of automation
and efficiency”. It also acknowledged that the necessary changes would
entail a significant reduction in jobs, while making the case for
maintaining employees’ terms and conditions of service.

Poor industrial relations at Royal Mail have been well documented, most
notably by the review led by Lord Sawyer in 2001°. They remain
extremely difficult. Over the past decade, disputes between Royal Mail’s
management and the Communication Workers Union have had a major
impact on the company’s ability to implement change and make progress
in transforming the business. In 2007, over 627,000 employee days were
lost as a result of industrial action, the highest total since 1996. This
represented 60% of days lost to strikes across the whole of the UK
economy in 2007.

additional revenues (because demand is ‘inelastic’), price changes of say 20% may cause revenue to
fall (because demand might be elastic for large price rises)

** Independent Review of Industrial Relations between Royal Mail and the Communications Workers
Union, Lord Sawyer, 2001

® Source: Labour Disputes in 2007, Office for National Statistics.

56

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Industrial action
can accelerate
structural decline,
endangering the
universal service.

Box 5: Unions

Employees in Royal Mail have the choice of being represented by one of

two unions.

Communications
workers union.

UNITE — the union.

The largest union for communications workers
in the UK with 250,000 members. Of these,
160,000 are employed in the postal sector,
working for Royal Mail and the Post Office.

The Union's National Executive Council is
responsible for policy decisions and is elected
each year by a postal ballot of all members.
The Council comprises two industrial executives
to decide on occupational policy: one for postal
matters, the other for telecommunications.

The CWU sponsors or supports eleven
members of the House of Commons.

Unite is the UK’s largest trade union with 2
million members across the private and public
sectors. The union’s members work in a range
of industries including manufacturing, financial
services, print, media, construction, transport,
local government, education, the health service
and not for profit sectors.

The Communication Managers Association
(CMA) Sector of Unite represents some 11,000
communications professionals of whom the
majority are managers in the Royal Mail Group,
Post Office Ltd, Parcelforce, Guernsey Post
Limited, Jersey Post and Isle of Man Post Office.
It is the only union recognised for managers in
Royal Mail and represents all grades. A large
percentage of its members work in joint
ventures with Royal Mail or outsourced
companies such as Romec, Quadrant, Capita,
Atos Origin, CSC, Xansa. The CMA also has
members in other postal operators such as
Deutsche Post.

81. Industrial action in recent years has promoted discussion about the
reliability and cost of postal services to boardroom level in major
companies. There is evidence to suggest that some companies using the
postal service for transactions and advertising decided to use other
media on a permanent basis after strikes in 2007, accelerating a decline

in the postal market®.

In a survey of Direct Marketing Association

“" Impact of Strike Action at Royal Mail in 2007, submission to the panel from the Mail Users

Association.

57

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
There is strong
tension, too,
between Royal
Mail’s manage-
ment and the
regulator.

Royal Mail made
an operating loss
in 2007-8.

82.

members, 41% said that their companies had suffered long-term adverse
effects as a result of industrial action and that further disputes would
exacerbate the situation. Because the universal service relies on
economies of scale, any action which reduces the volume of mail
endangers the universal service.

These difficulties are exacerbated by a lack of understanding about the
Government’s role as Royal Mail’s sole shareholder. However strongly
the Government emphasises that Royal Mail must follow commercial
objectives, the union perceives that it is in the interests of its members to
encourage Ministers to intervene in the management of the company.
This would be the case irrespective of which political party forms the
Government.

Relationship with the regulator

83.

84.

Tensions can be expected in any regulatory relationship, particularly in
the early stages of market liberalisation. There are comparisons with the
early relationship between BT and Oftel in the telecommunications
market. We have, however, been struck by the depth and range of
disagreements between Royal Mail and Postcomm. Even the most basic
facts are disputed. The definition of the postal market, the company’s
performance against efficiency targets, and the size and distribution of
Royal Mail’s costs, are notable examples. The systems and necessary
data needed to build a constructive and professional regulatory
relationship are not yet in place.

The tension reflects Royal Mail’s belief that Postcomm is too focused on
the introduction of competition, at the expense of the regulator’s
primary duty to protect the universal service, and Postcomm’s frustration
at the slow pace of change in Royal Mail. There is a lack of trust on both
sides. The situation is exacerbated by the fact that Royal Mail is the only
postal company whose prices are directly controlled by the regulator.
These tensions act as a constraint on Royal Mail by diverting
management attention from the main task at hand.

Royal Mail’s financial position

85.

86.

87.

Royal Mail’s profitability is low compared to the leading European
operators such as TNT and Deutsche Post. Last year, TNT and Deutsche
Post achieved operating margins of 13-15% from their mail operations,
yielding an operating profit of £500 million and £1.6 billion respectively.

As Royal Mail’s revenues have fallen over the last two years, its operating
costs have continued to rise, and now stand at over £6.9 billion. As a
result Royal Mail made its first operating loss (of £3 million) in 2007-8”
since the company’s reorganisation in 2001-02.

The company and regulator agree that the number of letters handled by
Royal Mail over the next ten years could fall by around a third. This
reflects declining volumes in the market as a whole, as customers

at the mid-year point in 2008-9, Royal Mail made a small profit of £46 million against revenues of
£3.3 billion, in spite of falling volumes. Even so, the company's profit margin is still amongst the very
lowest of its West European peers at 1.4%.

58

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
88.

89,

continue to move to electronic communications, and the possible impact
of some end-to-end competition.

In its submission to the panel, Royal Mail indicated that its “overall
financial situation is becoming increasingly difficult” and that the
“forecast headroom against the company’s financing facilities allows little
margin for error’. With a pension revaluation due in 2009, significant
market uncertainty and letter volumes declining more quickly than
predicted, even before the current economic downturn, what was a tight
but manageable financing position now has substantially more risk
attached.

Postcomm, too, believes that “without extensive change, the Royal Mail’s
business model will become unsustainable”. Under a “managed decline
scenario” which assumes no transformational changes, Royal Mail’s
profitability could fall further (Figure 19) and it could have a negative
cash flow in the region of £400 million each year by 2009-10 (Figure 20).

Figure 19

Royal Mail projected profit, 2008-13

{EBITDA in £ millions, based on a managed decline scenario)

40

(20)

(40

(eo)

(100)

(120)

59

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Figure 20

Royal Mail projected cash flow, 2008-13

(£ millions, based on a managed decline scenario)

g

(100)

(150)

(200)

(250)

(200)

(250)

(400)

(40)

The universal service is under threat

90.

91.

92.

Royal Mail is the only company currently capable of providing the
universal service. That is likely to remain the case for the foreseeable
future. Consequently, Royal Mail’s financial viability, its ability to invest
to develop the business, and its response to the changing demands of its
customers (including other postal companies) is vitally important to the
universal service and to the sector as a whole.

In the year ending March 2008, Royal Mail reported that the universal
service had made an operating loss, for the first time, of around £100
million. Royal Mail was also unprofitable, making an operating loss of £3
million.

Royal Mail’s financial position is already precarious. And there remain
major challenges ahead. Without significant change, the company’s
financial position will deteriorate against the backdrop of an
unprecedented, structural decline in the letters market. The universal
service is under threat and the status quo untenable.

60

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
61

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Part 3.

The choice

62
Modernise or decline?

This part explains why the universal service cannot be sustained under the
present framework and examines the options available to Government. It sets
out the implications if there were no change in policy. It concludes that short-
term cost-saving and compensatory measures are not appropriate solutions
under current circumstances. Modernisation is the key to a positive and
profitable future for the postal service.

Summary

» The universal service cannot be sustained under present policies.

» Sustaining the universal service means removing the constraints which
currently impede Royal Mail’s ability to respond to a structural decline in the
letters market.

» We do not recommend degrading the universal service or opening a fund to
compensate Royal Mail for the obligation to operate the national network.

» These options are not appropriate in current circumstances. They would
penalise consumers, competitors or the taxpayer while Royal Mail is inefficient
and its costs are too high.

> Nor are they desirable. They would not address the fundamental problems
undermining Royal Mail’s financial health and could well hasten decline.

» The only effective method of sustaining the universal service is to modernise
Royal Mail.

» Arestructuring at Royal Mail is inevitable.

» Unless measures are taken to accelerate the process of modernisation, it is
likely that the company will need to approach Government for emergency
financial support.

» Emergency financial support would lead to forced and rapid restructuring
carried out under European rules on restructuring aid. That would be costly
and a poor outcome for the taxpayer, for Royal Mail, and for its employees.

» The measures which we set out in Part 4 are necessary to ensure that Royal

Mail can modernise effectively. This is critically important if the postal service
is to have a positive future.

63

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Without policy
changes, Royal
Mail is likely to
need emergency
financial support.

The status quo is untenable

93.

94,

In Part 2, we set out a positive future for the postal service: a future
which exploits the unique properties of mail, in which postal companies
are obsessive in meeting the needs of their customers, services are
reliable and convenient, priced competitively, sustainable and innovative.
Achieving that future will be demanding under current circumstances.
The digital revolution has prompted an unprecedented decline in letters.
And Royal Mail — which operates the national network — was not
profitable at the end of the last financial year. There is a broad
consensus among postal companies, business users, consumer
organisations and the regulator that the status quo is not tenable.

Box 6: Views of some key stakeholders

Postwatch: “We are acutely aware that declining mail volumes and the recent
announcement by the Royal Mail that the universal postal service has become
loss making give customers real cause for concern about the future of the
service they value.”

Communications Workers Union: “Currently, the policy and funding of Royal
Mail makes its future untenable and damages the service to customers, the
terms and conditions of workers in the industry and the future of the universal
service.”

Postcomm: “The future health of Royal Mail, the universal service, and the
addressed letters market are inextricably linked. Decisions about fundamental
reform must be taken swiftly if Royal Mail is to lead a healthier mail market and
provide a strong universal service.”

Royal Mail: “It is equally untenable to wait for the next price control in 2010 to.
address the urgent funding gap and the challenges facing the industry and Royal
Mail. Action is needed in the short-term ... to address these issues and the
increasing risks to the universal service.”

Without policy changes, financial pressures on Royal Mail will mean that
emergency financial support is likely to be needed. Because no other
company is currently able to provide the universal service, there would
be strong policy reasons for the Government to meet such a request.
Funding would, however, need to be compatible with European state aid
guidelines on rescue and restructuring.

Box 7: Restructuring Aid.

The purpose of restructuring aid is to restore the long-term commercial viability
ofa business in financial difficulty without further need of state support. All
restructuring aid requires approval from the European Commission, following a
full investigation.

64

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Restructuring aid
would weaken
Royal Mail’s ability
to develop its
business.

95.

96.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

The implications of restructuring aid for Royal Mail would depend upon
the circumstances in which aid was given and approved by the European
Commission. Based on the Commission’s guidelines and decisions made
in other cases, its conditions could well include:

> an accelerated rationalisation programme involving extensive
closures across Royal Mail’s network of mail centres and delivery
offices.

® the forced introduction of other measures to reduce Royal Mail’s
costs, such as closure of the final salary pension scheme to existing
members and contracting out parts of the delivery chain.

» the sale of subsidiaries such as GLS and Parcelforce.

» compensatory measures to benefit competitors. Examples include a
withdrawal from upstream bulk mail activities in favour of direct
access operators, the closure of new commercial activities such as
logistics and document management, and restrictions on future
investment outside its core mail business.

Box 8: Restructuring Aid — Case Study.

The European Commission approved the UK Government's restructuring aid for
British Energy in 2004. Although the aid related to the future decommissioning
of nuclear power plants, as part of the approval process a series of conditions
was imposed to limit the adverse impact on British Energy's competitors. These
conditions were far reaching and will remain in force even after the recently
announced ownership change. They included :~

> _arequirement that British Energy introduce accounting separation, ring-
fencing its main business units

> acap on the company's energy production capacity (from all sources) until
2010

> aprohibition on the company extending its fossil-fuel based generation
activities outside of the UK

> a prohibition on the company acquiring large hydro-electricity plants
within the UK

> restrictions on its ability to compete when selling power to large business
users until 2009

Stringent conditions, backed by a monitoring process, would force Royal
Mail to cut costs. But this default option of modernisation through
restructuring aid has significant disadvantages.

® The forced divestment of some of Royal Mail’s activities and

restrictions on those that remained would weaken Royal Mail’s
ability to develop, expand and diversify its business in the future.

65
Short term
measures would
accelerate the
cycle of decline.

97.

» Accelerated job losses would make it difficult to manage the
transition by using existing processes of redeployment and voluntary
redundancy.

> Royal Mail’s fragile condition as an employer could cause the pension
trustee to revisit the assumptions used to calculate the deficit,
increasing it significantly.

Doing nothing, therefore, is not a credible response to the challenges
which we have set out in this report. The alternative options available to
Government are to allow Royal Mail to adopt a series of measures which
will ease the situation in the very short term, to compensate Royal Mail
for the obligation to provide the universal service, to reduce the
specification of the universal service, or to put in place policies which will
encourage and support the modernisation of Royal Mail for the long
term. We look at the implications of each in turn.

Short-term measures

98.

99.

Royal Mail could respond to current financial pressures with short-term
cash saving measures. This could include halting or slowing down the
modernisation programme, selling part of the business or implementing
a pay freeze. It could also seek approval for emergency cost-cutting
measures, such as lowering service standards.

These options would offer limited short term relief. But none would be
sufficient to resolve Royal Mail’s financial difficulties. They would
accelerate, not halt, the cycle of decline.

A compensation fund

100.

101.

102.

Some stakeholders have proposed that the burden of providing the
universal service should fall on the market as a whole, rather than just
‘one company. It would be technically possible, for example, to establish
a fund with the intention of compensating Royal Mail for any losses it
incurs by providing the universal service. Alternative carriers could be
asked to contribute to the fund on an equal basis, or according to their
market share. Alternatively, Royal Mail could be compensated directly
through a subsidy by taxpayers.

The amounts which can be recovered in this way are tightly prescribed
under European law. They would be limited to the net cost of the
services which Royal Mail would not provide, were it not under an
obligation to do so. As a result, a compensation fund would have only a
limited effect on the company’s financial position, particularly in the
short term.

More importantly, we believe that compensation, from any source,
would be counter-productive in the present situation. It would
considerably weaken the incentive for Royal Mail to adapt to changes in
the market. It would not address the fundamental issues undermining
the financial health of Royal Mail.

66

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Alternative carriers
should not be
penalised for Royal
Mail’s lack of
efficiency.

Reducing
standards would
simply penalise
consumers.

Modernisation of
Royal Mail is the
only credible
option to
safeguard the
universal service.

103.

We also believe that, while Royal Mail’s competitors should be required
to pay a fair price for the use of its delivery network, they should not be
penalised for the company’s inefficiency. We therefore recommend that
an industry-based compensation fund should be rejected in current
circumstances.

Degrading the universal service

104,

105.

106.

108.

Others have suggested that the demands imposed on Royal Mail by the
universal service should be reduced. This is feasible only to the extent
that standards set in the UK are higher than those required by the
relevant European directives. The number of deliveries each week could
be reduced legally from six to five, for example. And the uniform tariff
could be abolished altogether, provided that prices were deemed
“affordable” under European law.

Analysis suggests that £271 million would be saved annually if the
company were required only to deliver on five days per week, rather
than six®. This is comparable with a 1% improvement in efficiency per
year, over the four year period of a price control.

Reducing the basic requirements of the universal service, making it less
flexible and therefore less responsive to consumer needs, carries a high
risk of accelerating the decline in the mail market. A faster decline would
have a negative impact on Royal Mail’s opportunities for new business,
leading to a vicious circle.

In short, we do not believe that the universal service will be sustained by
degrading it. Reducing standards would simply penalise consumers to
support a business whose costs are substantially higher than necessary.

We recommend that a reduction in the universal service should be
rejected in current circumstances. It would not address the fundamental
issues undermining the financial health of Royal Mail. It would be a poor
deal for the consumer. And it would not provide security for the
company’s employees.

Modernisation — in principle

109.

110.

To sustain the universal service, Royal Mail must be able to respond, and
respond quickly, to the structural decline in the letters market which is
now under way. That means tackling the constraints which we identified
in Part 2: inefficiency, the pension deficit and poor relationships with
unions and the regulator. In our view, modernisation of Royal Mail is the
only credible policy option.

In the next part of this report, we explain the implications of
modernisation for Royal Mail, and make recommendations for the policy
changes required to bring it about.

" The Costs and Benefits of Modifying the Scope of the Universal Service, prepared for Postcomm by
Frontier Economics, May 2008.

67

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Box 9: Modernisation.

Ina declining market, modernisation can be defined in very simple terms: the
need to change culture in order to focus on customers, reduce costs and
increase revenues.

Based on experience in other countries, the process of modernising a national
postal operator such as Royal Mail can be divided into two distinct phases. Both
are important.

> Transformation. The company’s first priority must be to improve
efficiency and reduce costs. Typically, this involves restructuring the
company’s national network of mail centres, distribution centres and
delivery offices to ensure that it is configured to meet current and future
demands in the most efficient way. This process will require investment in
automation and a more flexible approach to working patterns, embraced
by both management and unions.

» Diversification and expansion. With the letters market in structural
decline, finding new sources of revenue is essential. This may be achieved
by extending the range of its postal services (taking advantage of the
growth in e-fulfilment for example), by providing related products, or by
expanding to cover a wider geographical area.

68

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
69

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Part 4.

The solution

70
Modernising Royal Mail

This first section sets out our recommendations for modernising Royal Mail to
ensure that the universal service can be sustained in future.

Summary

> We believe that for the universal service to be sustainable, Royal Mail must
modernise more quickly. That means removing the constraints which the
company currently faces.

» To modernise, Royal Mail needs commercial confidence. That will not happen
unless there is political separation, better engagement between the
management and workforce, and a joint commitment to modernise the
service in the best interests of the taxpayer, consumer and employees.

» It will also require access to capital more quickly, without the constraints
attached to funding by Government.

> And the company must be able to draw on corporate experience of managing
change in difficult circumstances.

» The current governance and funding structures are not capable of addressing
these needs.

> It is essential that a new approach is adopted which works for the
circumstances we now face in the UK.

» We recommend a strategic partnership between Royal Mail and one or more
private-sector companies with demonstrable experience of transforming a
major business, ideally a network business, in circumstances comparable to
those now faced by Royal Mail.

» Post Office Ltd, which provides an important social service, should remain
wholly within public ownership.

> We recommend that Government should tackle Royal Mail’s historic pension
deficit, to enable the company to reap the benefits of modernisation.

71

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
A positive
future for Royal
Mail requires
fundamental
change.

Modernisation in practice

111.

112.

113.

114.

115.

There is no doubt that Royal Mail is less efficient than its counterparts.
Its modernisation began after many other postal companies and is taking
place more slowly, against a background of declining volumes of
business.

The company recognises that it is only part way through its
transformation and has some way to go to be best in class. In its second
submission to the panel, Royal Mail said that it “fully recognises that the
pace and extent of change in business performance and culture needs to
accelerate.” Others agree. When we asked a wide range of
organisations to give their impressions of the modernisation process, the
consensus was that Royal Mail had achieved between 25% and 40% of
the necessary changes.

The immediate focus of modernisation should be to transform the
national network. It is for the company’s management, rather than the
Panel, to decide on the precise shape of the company’s infrastructure. In
doing so, management will need to take into account the population
distribution, geography and demand for postal services in the UK, and
requirements of the universal service. But the experience of other
European operators offers some indication as to the scale of change
likely to be needed and what can be achieved with the determination of
management and unions. Figure 21 offers a basic comparison.

Figure 21: Changes to national networks across Europe

Time I Mail centres Delivery offices

(years)

Before After Before After

Germany - Deutsche Post 10 328 83 11,000 3,700
France - La Poste 10 100 45 7,000 4,000
Holland -TNT 8 12 6 700 550

Switzerland - Swiss Post™ 3 18 9 1,735 1,185

We believe it likely that the UK postal service could operate efficiently
with around half the current number of mail centres. This has been the
experience in all countries where postal services have been modernised.
The scale of reduction in delivery offices depends on the business model
adopted by each country. But in each case, the reduction in numbers is
significant: between a fifth and two-thirds for this sample.

The modernisation of Royal Mail is no ordinary undertaking.

> Restructuring of its network is an expensive proposition. Royal Mail
is already expecting to invest at least £1.5 billion in new machinery
and new and improved facilities over the next five years. The final
cost could significantly exceed this figure®®.

“* Reorganisation to be completed by March 2009

°° For example, around £3 billion (at current exchange rates) was invested by Deutsche Post in the 10
years from 1990 to 2000. The value of this investment would be significantly higher if adjusted for
current prices.

72

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
116.

117.

® It presents a management challenge on the scale of modernising the
telecommunications trunk network by BT in the 1980s. Consultation
with staff, planning for the transition to a new network structure,
and the adaptation of working patterns demand a major investment
of time and expertise at all levels of the organisation.

» The process will need to be completed swiftly and cost-effectively
while maintaining some of the highest service standards in Europe,
without disruption to businesses or residential consumers.

Modernisation on this scale will clearly be challenging for Royal Mail’s
existing workforce. Transformation will bring a significant reduction in
jobs over time. But changes to policy will also bring rewards, secure the
remaining jobs and help manage risks.

> If planned and implemented effectively, modernisation will secure
the future of the postal service, bringing stability for the company
and establishing a sound basis for future growth.

» The alternative — to be avoided — is decline: a downward spiral of
insecurity, lower standards, and instability. Continuing with present
policies will not remove the need for restructuring, but in due course
is likely to lead to rapid and enforced changes in the business, with
accelerated job losses. Delay, therefore, is not in the interests of
consumers, the taxpayer, or Royal Mail’s workforce.

The second phase of modernisation — diversification and expansion — will
similarly involve major capital expenditure, and may involve the
acquisition of other companies over time. Over the last five years Royal
Mail has made only limited moves to adapt its business, either through
moving into other parts of the value chain or through geographic
expansion. This is in marked contrast to European leading operators,
TNT and Deutsche Post (Figure 22).

What does Royal Mail need to modernise?

118.

119.

120.

If the universal service is to be sustained, we believe that the process of
modernisation must happen more quickly and go further than Royal
Mail’s current plans.

Modernisation will be a significant challenge for all concerned. There is
an urgent need for all stakeholders to work together, and to do so
quickly. Since all stakeholders have agreed that the status quo is not
tenable, they must also accept that their long-term interests and the
universal service cannot be secured through opposition to change.

To modernise quickly and effectively, Royal Mail needs:
> commercial confidence and greater clarity in its objectives over the

short and long term. That will require removing the spectre of
political intervention, enabling management to make decisions

73

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
about modernisation on a commercial basis (to safeguard the
universal service).

> access to capital free of the constraints (such as state aid approval)
which are attached to government finance, so that modernisation
and the development of new commercial activities can be funded.

» access to the corporate experience of a company or companies
which have managed change in difficult circumstances.

Commercial confidence

Clearer political 121.

separation is
necessary to
accelerate
modernisation.

122.

123.

In order to modernise, Royal Mail must be able to plan and deliver
necessary business changes at least as fast as its competitors. It needs to
consult with its workforce and unions, and be held accountable by its
shareholder. But it also needs confidence that its plans can be carried
out free from outside intervention, particularly when conflicting agendas
and competing relationships threaten to interfere with the process.

Since the Government owns Royal Mail, it is required to approve all
significant financial decisions. This is normal practice for any
shareholder. But in the case of Royal Mail, it brings Ministers into the
strategic governance of the company. Because of the connection which
the postal service has with the public and their MPs, Ministers often face
political pressure to intervene in the operational management of the
company. It is the perception that Ministerial intervention may be
possible, now or in the future, which presents difficulties for the
company. Handling these risks takes time and makes the task of running
the business much more complex.

During our discussions, postal operators in Europe and the United States
have repeatedly highlighted the need for political separation as a
necessary condition for successful modernisation. We believe clearer
political separation is necessary in the UK to enable the Royal Mail’s
management to accelerate the modernisation process.

BOX 10: Commercial focus and political separation

The Belgian Government announced in October 2004 that it was seeking an
industrial partner for its postal business, De Post — La Poste, to help accelerate
modernisation and, through a capital increase, provide the funds to do so
before European postal markets were fully open to competition.

In October 2005, an agreement was announced in which Post Danmark and
CVC agreed to purchase a minority stake in the business (50% less one share).
The new partners have four out of nine seats on the board. The Belgian
Government is unable to make any major changes unilaterally.

As part of the agreement, Post Danmark seconded a number of postal experts
to De Post — La Poste to improve efficiency and levels of customer service. At
the time of the announcement, CEO, Johnny Thijs, said: “You can only have a
social postal service if it is an efficient one”. A clear vision and commitment
from senior management has been a vital element in driving through the
modernisation process.

74

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
124,

126.

127.

128.

129.

The current structure also affects the relationship between the
company’s management and:

» the regulator. In a framework without a strong drive for shareholder
value, some perceive that the regulator has been drawn into the
detail of management decisions. This has led to claims that the
regulator, frustrated by the slow pace of change, has attempted to
“micro-manage” the company, or even to pre-empt decisions by
management.

» its employees and unions. The fact that the Government has a direct
involvement with the company encourages unions to take up issues
directly with Ministers and MPs, rather than resolving them directly
with management (as would be the case in most businesses). This
impedes the development of effective relations between the
company and its workforce.

We are particularly concerned about the impact of poor industrial
relations. The relationship between the Communication Workers Union
and management remains extremely difficult. There is a lack of trust in
the relationship at many levels. Both sides feel the need to defend past
decisions and reactions. Both have been accused of taking a tactical and
piecemeal approach to change, rather than a focus on long-term
strategy. Although management and unions recognise that their
relationship is a problem, neither side has found a way to resolve it.

Speaking to the House of Lords in 2006, Lord Sawyer commented that:

“In the past few months, the national officers of the CWU and senior
members of the Royal Mail's management team have jointly
reviewed the strategic plans that the business feels it must address
with the arrival of the competition ... There would be obvious and
great public benefit if these discussions bore real fruit and changed
the culture of industrial relations at the Royal Mail.

“But there are many difficult operational and employment changes
to be contemplated and implemented on which it will be difficult
enough to come to a common conclusion. In particular, the major
union, the CWU, will need to adapt to change and refocus what its
role should be so that it can effectively influence—and not just
challenge—the Royal Mail's thinking on these sorts of issues."

We share Lord Sawyer’s view that engagement would beneficial, and that
all stakeholders need to adapt to change. We also note that the attempt
to which he referred in 2006 — like others in the past — ended in failure.

We do not believe that these difficulties are insoluble. The postal sector
is now facing a fundamental decline in the letters market. The scale and
urgency of the challenges facing Royal Mail and its workforce mean that
the incentives on all stakeholders to find a new way forward are stronger
than before. The price of failure is much higher.

We believe strongly that modernisation of the business will only be

achieved if industrial relations are modernised. That has been the
experience in other countries. This is not within the remit of

75

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Effective labour
relations will
require a change in
approach on both
sides.

130.

Government but squarely the responsibility of the management and
unions. Political separation can help achieve this goal, by clarifying
responsibilities and reducing concerns about intervention in the
management of Royal Mail. But it will also require a change in approach
on both sides.

» For the CWU to be a credible partner in the process of
modernisation which we believe vital and urgent for the future of
Royal Mail and the universal service, it must accept the scale of the
transformation required, and show that it can tackle the behaviour
and internal processes which at present result in confrontation and
obstruction.

» Management, in turn, must be prepared to play its role in improving
relationships at a national and local level, by setting out its vision for
the company in a transparent way, the implications of
transformation, the risks of failure, and the opportunities in
diversification.

This engagement needs to be based on a realistic assessment of the
precarious position in which Royal Mail now finds itself, and the urgency
with which changes must be made if the spiral of decline is to be ended.
Further delay will accelerate decline with the result that all stakeholders
will lose out.

Box 11 : Transformation and Engagement at Deutsche Post ©

When Deutsche Post began its modernisation process in 1990, it faced
many of the same challenges as Royal Mail, including a public sector
heritage, and the need to work with a strong union representing over
80% of the workforce.

Four factors were critical in achieving a transformation that all partners
regarded as socially compatible:

¢ — aconstructive and trusting climate between the trades unions and
management, including the active engagement of all parties in
communicating the need for radical change;

© acombination of cost reduction and quality enhancement;

* acollective agreement on dealing with staff interests in a fair
manner, including agreements on no compulsory redundancies,
improvement in working conditions, part time working and early
retirement, and virtually no outsourcing in core operations; and

© the absence of political opposition to management's plans.

*° Sources: Panel member's visit to Deutsche Post, 12" August 2008; and Transformation at Deutsche
Post World Net using the example of Socially Compatible Workforce Adjustment, Maschke W. (2002) in
M.A. Crew and P.R. Kleindorfer (eds); Postal and Delivery Services: Delivering on Competition, pages

303-319.

76

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Access to capital

Royal Mail must be = 131.

able to raise more
capital quickly and
easily.

132.

133.

In its submission to the panel, Royal Mail said that “the company’s
financing facilities allow little margin for error’. We agree. With a
pension revaluation due in 2009, significant market uncertainty, letter
volumes declining even more quickly than anticipated, and the beginning
‘of an economic downturn, what was a tight but manageable financing
position now has substantially more risk attached. The cash headroom is
unacceptably small for a business of this size, given the scale of
investment that will be required. Our view is that, as a matter of
prudence, the company must be in a position where it can quickly and
easily raise more capital if that becomes necessary in the near future.

Access to finance is particularly important for the modernisation of a
company in a rapidly changing market. Wholly under public ownership,
Royal Mail has only one source of capital: Government. While
Government’s investment in Royal Mail is made on commercial terms, it
is less flexible than other forms of finance for two reasons:

> With so many demands on public finances, funding for Government
investment in Royal Mail has to compete with other projects of
economic and social importance.

> It is likely that any significant Government investment, even on a
commercial basis, will be subject to scrutiny by the European
Commission under the rules on state aid. This process takes time,
and creates uncertainty for the company, and the market as a whole.
The current £1.2 billion financing package is still the subject of a
continuing investigation by the European Commission, some 18
months after the Government's support was finalised.

These will be significant constraints for Royal Mail when further
investment is urgently needed to support the company’s development,
its expansion, or diversification into other areas of business comparable
with the joint ventures, alliances and acquisitions made by some of its
competitors (see Figure 22). By contrast, private capital is in general
more flexible and tolerant of commercial risk than the taxpayer. It can
be raised more easily, faster and for a wider range of purposes, and does
not come at the cost of other competing public priorities.

Access to corporate experience

134,

There are many risks associated with modernisation. The scale of
transformation required is huge. There are numerous pressures on
management. And the impact of failure is very high, as we set out in Part
3. For these reasons, we believe that Royal Mail needs access to the
corporate experience of one or more private-sector companies which
have successfully managed complex change on a similar scale and under
equally challenging circumstances, ideally in a network business.

77

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
82

Figure 22

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Joint ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions in mail
TNT and Deutsche Post, 2003-7

TNT
I
I

Deutsche Post

2003 2004
Acquired majority ownership of + Joint venture
Prime Vision (Netherlands, electronic with Essent
recognition software/product (Netherlands,
developer) electronic

communication

Strategic co-operation with Korea and service
Post (South Korea, mail and channels)

express)

Acquired Full Service (Italy, print and
mail)

Acquired DocVision (Netherlands,
document management)

Strategic partnership with China Post
(China, mail, express and logistics)

Acquired blitzpunkt (Germany,
unaddressed mail)

+ Acquired stake
in Unipost
(Spain, mail)

+ Acquired
SmartMail
(USA, mail)

2005

* Strategic co-

operation with
Japan Post
(Japan, express
and logistics)

+ Acquired Euro

Mail (Netherlands,
print and mailing
house)

+ Acquired Koba
(France, direct
marketing and
mail)

+ Acquired Mail
Merge
(Netherlands,
mail)

2006

+ Joint venture with
Yamato Holdings
(Japan, mail)

+ Acquired Williams
Lea (UK,
document
management and
mail)

2007

+ Acquired stake in
Nordwest-Mail
(Germany, publishing
house)

+ Strategic alliance with
Siiddeutscher Verlag
and Ippen (Germany,
mail and publishing
house)

+ Acquired The
Stationery
Office (UK,
information
management
and publishing)
Access to 135.

corporate
experience of
managing change
will enhance the
prospects for Royal
Mail’s successful
modernisation.

136.

Access to corporate experience is, in our view, substantially different
from appointing new members of the senior team, or involving
consultants. Forging a relationship with another company would enable
Royal Mail to establish joint teams with specific expertise and skills to
tackle particular objectives of the modernisation process at the right
time, building on best practice. It would also provide a constructive
support to junior, middle or senior management. In either case, drawing
deeply on such a wide range of expertise would add much greater value
than hiring a limited number of people — however well qualified — into
specific roles.

Access to corporate experience will enhance the prospects for successful
modernisation. It will also reduce the risks for all stakeholders, including
the taxpayer. It may be that relevant experience of managing change is
available in some UK network companies. Since Royal Mail dominates
the postal sector, however, the closest parallel is likely to be found
amongst mail companies in Europe.

Meeting these requirements together

All three 137.

requirements need
to be met.

138.

All three of these requirements — commercial confidence, access to
capital, access to corporate experience — are fundamental to Royal Mail’s
modernisation and, therefore, sustaining the universal service.
Addressing just one or two of these requirements will not be sufficient.
For example:

» commercial confidence and access to capital on their own will leave
the transformation facing very significant risks, given the massive
scale of the undertaking;

® access to capital and corporate experience on their own will mean
that modernisation is slower than required and will not provide the
conditions in which there can be constructive engagement between
management and unions; and

» commercial confidence and corporate experience on their own will
leave the company struggling to finance the investment required for
both transformation and diversification.

In the next paragraphs, we set out our recommended approach for
meeting these requirements: partnership. By securing modernisation,
partnership will help ensure Royal Mail’s commercial success. And by
ensuring Royal Mail’s commercial success, it will safeguard the universal
service.

Partnership

The future of 139.

Royal Mail and the
universal service
depends on
forging a strategic
partnership

If the universal service is to be maintained, a new approach is required.
To achieve the modernisation of Royal Mail and secure the future of the
universal service, we recommend that there should be a strategic
partnership between Royal Mail and one or more private sector
companies with demonstrable experience in transforming a major

79

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
140.

141.

142.

144.

business, ideally a network business, in circumstances comparable to
those now faced by Royal Mail.

Based on experience to date, it is our strong view that the existing policy
framework is not capable of supplying the commercial confidence, capital
and corporate experience which we believe is necessary to accelerate
modernisation. Change is required if the universal service is to be
maintained.

The current policy framework set out in the 1999 White Paper on postal
reform”, and implemented in 2001, made a number of significant
reforms. It established Royal Mail Group™ as a public limited company
operating under a new financial regime, and recognised the need for
greater commercial freedom based on a new “arms length” relationship
between the Government as shareholder and the Board.

This was an important step forward. But greater commercial freedom
has proved to be difficult to realise in practice. Royal Mail continues to
operate in a highly political environment. It has been unable either to
finance the modernisation programme from retained earnings, or to
obtain new government investment through the ‘fast track’ process
envisaged in the White Paper.

Secondly, and more significantly, the market and industry context have
moved on since 1999. Royal Mail’s principal European competitors have
moved ahead in terms of performance and modernisation, and a number
have gained further advantages through cross-border alliances and
consolidation. Market liberalisation has provided increased choice for
business customers. And — most importantly — substitution arising from
the growth in electronic communications anticipated in 1999 has
resulted in declining mail volumes.

The precise nature of a strategic partnership, and its detailed terms,
should be a matter for Government to negotiate. At its core, however,
will be Royal Mail’s obligations under the universal service as required
under European and UK law. We believe that partnership is the right
approach now because:

> it will provide the management with greater commercial confidence
in delivering modernisation, with reduced risk of external
intervention, and establish an environment in which there can be
effective engagement with the workforce and unions.

> it will, through a significant equity investment, bring access to the
capital required to finance both transformation and diversification.

» it will bring practical corporate experience and expertise in the
transformation of a network, reducing the risks to the modernisation
process.

*" post Office Reform: A World Class Service for the 21" Century, CM 4340
®* What is now Royal Mail Group was then known as the Post Office.

80

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The UK needs a
pragmatic
solution, not an
approach based
on ideology.

146.

Although some other countries have modernised postal services wholly
within public ownership, the circumstances have been very different. In
many cases, modernisation was carried out in a growing market and with
limited competition. There is an increasing trend towards private-sector
investment as a catalyst for modernisation (see Figure 23).

Box 12: Modernisation in the United States

In 1970, a decision was taken that the Postmaster General would no
longer be appointed directly by the President. Just as important, there
was an agreement that the company would finance all future
investment from its retained earnings.

Parallels between the United States and Europe are, however, limited.
USPS retains a monopoly in the delivery of letters, while European
directives require that all European postal markets must be fully open
to competition by 2012. Moreover, industrial action is prohibited by
law. There is no precedent for this in the UK, even in sectors which are
important for national security.

Figure 23

EU postal operators which have introduced private capital
1994-2008

2000 2006 2008

1994
— =
—_ = — oo
TNT Deutsche Post Post ‘Austrian Posten *
(Netherlands) (Germany) Danmark Post (Sweden)

De Post — La Poste
(Belgium)

* Merger with Post Danmark announced on 1 April 2008.

There are very significant limitations attached to other structural
reforms.

» Public listing. While we would not dismiss the possibility of listing
the company on the public markets as an option for the future, it
would not deliver the access to corporate experience which we
believe Royal Mail requires. Moreover, the company’s poor financial
performance and the market uncertainty driven by e-substitution
and liberalisation would make it difficult to raise the required capital,
if the company were to be listed now. This option would only be
appropriate and feasible if modernisation had been completed.
Royal Mail’s pension deficit would need to be more manageable, the

81

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The Post Office
should remain
wholly within
public sector
ownership.

147.

business would need to have restructured, the company would have
plans to expand in the mail market and be capable of paying a
dividend.

> Not-for-profit and not-for-dividend models, such as Glas Cymru or
Network Rail, are not appropriate or workable in current
circumstances. Water and rail networks are natural monopolies,
operating in stable markets with low levels of risk, with long-term
investment needs funded by significant debt positions. Since Royal
Mail is facing much higher risks to its business driven by structural
market change and increasing competition, the level of debt funding
it could bear is unlikely to be sufficient to meet its capital
requirements. Access to risk-seeking equity capital is much more
relevant to its current needs.

In short, we believe that partnership is the only approach which can
deliver Royal Mail’s modernisation and, therefore, secure the future of
the universal service.

Post Office Ltd

148.

149,

150.

iL

152.

Given the wider social role of the post office network, we recommend
that Post Office Ltd should remain entirely in public ownership.

Like Royal Mail, Post Office Ltd is a commercial business with a social
obligation. But the nature of its social obligations — ensuring access to
government services and sustaining rural communities for example —
means that there is little prospect that Post Office Ltd will be sustained
ona fully commercial basis. Around three quarters of its 12,000 outlets
do not make a profit and can only be sustained by a direct subsidy of
£150 million from Government each year.

We have not been invited to conduct an analysis of the Post Office
network, or consider the wide range of services which it provides. We
are, however, clear that post offices are essential for the future of the
universal service. They are an important access point for many
customers, particularly since the introduction of cost-reflective pricing
for letters and packages.

The Post Office network could be used more extensively in future.
Recipients might, for example, be given greater choice to collect packets
or parcels which are too big for letterboxes from their local outlet. This
would reduce the number of deliveries which fail at the first attempt and
remove the need for longer journeys to delivery offices or regional
depots. This option is already available for items handled by Parcel
Force. Otherwise, recipients have little control over deliveries.

To ensure that the Post Office network can continue to act as an access

point for the universal service, there should be a transparent, long-term
business agreement between Royal Mail and Post Office Ltd.

82

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Pensions

153.

154.
The historic
pension deficit
is large
and volatile.
155.

The deficit acts as
a major constraint
on Royal Mail’s
business.

We believe that the changes already made to reduce the cost of future
pension provision are essential. They have been carried out after
consultation. We do not believe that it would be in the interests of the
business or its employees for these new arrangements to be the subject
of industrial action. A strike would do nothing to establish a sustainable
future for the company. It would very likely damage the universal
service, by encouraging more customers to explore alternatives to mail.

The costs and risks associated with the pension deficit, however, are
more significant. They pose a constraint on Royal Mail’s business and,
therefore, represent a threat to the universal service. The size of the
scheme means that the deficit, already very large, will remain extremely
volatile. Moreover, Royal Mail is only able to pay off the deficit over a
much longer timescale than would be the case for a stronger employer.
The problems are structural and so can be expected to persist.

For any business, this position would be extremely difficult. In Royal
Mail’s case, it has wider implications for the future of the universal
service and, therefore, for the postal services market in the UK.

» Cashflow. Royal Mail’s obligations in relation to the deficit
represent a very significant drain on its cash resources during a
period when it will need to fund a significant modernisation
programme against a challenging market background. Even as the
company’s financial position improves through increased efficiency,
new investment (including the funding of diversification and
innovation necessary for longer term business growth) will continue
to be constrained because of the expectation that any improvement
in financial performance should be reflected in increased cash
contributions to the pension scheme.

» Balance sheet constraint. Because the pension deficit is so high
relative to Royal Mail’s business and assets, the company is balance
sheet insolvent. Although this does not affect the company’s ability
to trade, it does mean that the company’s directors are under
particular legal constraints which force them to consider decisions
{including investment) on the basis of their short term cash effects at
the expense of longer-term factors such as the improvement in
service quality.

» Costs. The historic pension deficit is unique to Royal Mail, within the
postal sector, as a former monopoly. The costs associated with the
deficit cannot be avoided by Royal Mail. It is much harder for the
company to compete in a liberalised market because its cost base is
higher than its competitors’ who do not have similar pension
obligations. Few other European incumbent operators have an
equivalent issue, owing to the nature of arrangements made at the
time of liberalisation of their markets”.

>» External investment. As well as being a barrier to investment by
Royal Mail, the pension deficit is such a significant financial risk for
the business that it effectively excludes the possibility of any future

© Main Developments in the Postal Sector 2004-2006, Wik Consulting, in a report for the European
Commission.

83

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Customers are
paying higher
prices because of
the pension deficit.

156.

external investment in Royal Mail, or its participation in joint venture
arrangements, even where that investment is necessary or beneficial
as part of the modernisation of the company, or in ensuring a strong
position for Royal Mail in any future consolidation of the postal
sector across Europe.

» Prices. Under the current price control set by Postcomm, all
consumers (including business customers) are effectively paying
prices that are some 5% higher than would be the case if there were
no pension deficit”. This is equivalent to an additional 2p on the
price of a first class stamp. Any future increase in the deficit is likely
to require further price rises for consumers. These may cause
customers to use substitutes, or simply not to send mail, accelerating
market decline.

The constraints which the pension deficit imposes on Royal Mail,
particularly in terms of investment, will make it harder to achieve the
necessary efficiency improvements across the business and build an
innovative, responsive service for consumers with the universal service at
its core.

A new approach

157.

158.

159.

Although Royal Mail is not the only business or public sector body with a
significant pensions deficit, its circumstances are unique. Following the
decision by Government to liberalise the market, Royal Mail is having to
respond to new competitive pressures whilst also meeting its obligations
to provide the universal service. And it is now having to do so against a
background of falling volumes and revenues brought about by the digital
revolution. A new approach is needed to tackling Royal Mail’s pension
deficit if the benefits of liberalisation are to be realised.

In other sectors previously dominated by a state-owned monopoly,
Government has taken action to address historic liabilities in order to
facilitate beneficial change in the industry. Changes to the rail industry in
1993, and the coal industry in 1994 are examples where action on
pension liabilities was fundamental to enabling necessary restructuring of
the industry — including in the case of coal against the background of a
contracting market.

In the case of Royal Mail, the cost of the deficit is currently shared
between consumers, Royal Mail and the taxpayer as shareholder. We
doubt whether this is appropriate or effective as a long-term solution,
particularly given the prospect of a significant increase in the size of the
pension deficit.

> The increasing resistance of customers to paying higher prices for
postal products, and falling letter volumes, mean that further price
rises to meet the increasing cost of the deficit are unlikely to be
effective. Instead, they are more likely to accelerate market decline
driven by e-substitution.

"Source: Postcomm

84

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
160.

Responsibility
for the historic
pension liabilities
should be
transferred to
Government, in
parallel with our
recommendations
for the
modernisation of
Royal Mail.

162.

163.

161.

» Although Royal Mail does have scope for significant efficiency
savings, the benefits of these savings will be fully absorbed in placing
the company on a sustainable financial basis going forward. There is
very little margin, particularly in the short term, to fund increased
deficit contributions, and doing so could in fact endanger the
universal service.

Other, short-term measures are possible. But, on their own, they would
not address the underlying causes of the deficit, nor would they alleviate
the adverse impact of the deficit on Royal Mail and the wider postal
services market.

» the sale of GLS would be one option to reduce the pensions deficit.
But since GLS generates cash, it may also weaken the ability of the
company to fund the significant ongoing deficit payments that would
still be required.

» a one-off injection of taxpayer funding into the scheme by
Government would require clearance under state aid rules, and
could well make it more difficult to obtain subsequent approval for
longer-term measures to address the underlying cause.

A long-term solution is therefore essential. And it is our view that that
the best long-term solution must be for the risk around the historic
liabilities to be managed by the body — central Government — that has
the size and financial resources best suited to perform that role in a way
which does not threaten the universal service.

Provided that the constraints on Royal Mail’s ability to modernise have
been removed, we recommend that:

» the responsibility for the historic liabilities should be transferred
from Royal Mail to the Government. This would leave Royal Mail
with a much smaller scheme and liabilities that would no longer be
of a size that called into question the financial viability of the
business. It would relieve the cash and balance sheet constraint on
new investment and increase Royal Mail’s competitiveness. It would
also benefit consumers by reducing the pressures on stamp prices.

» the Government should take responsibility for the historic liabilities
in a way which provides an incentive on all stakeholders, including
the unions, to modernise Royal Mail. It could, for example, take a
staged approach in which the scheme’s assets and liabilities related
to pensioners and members with deferred benefits were transferred
to separate, Government-backed arrangements. As active members
left the company as a result of the modernisation process, their
liabilities and assets could be also be transferred.

These recommendations are not a complete solution for the problems
currently faced by Royal Mail. On their own, they will not bring about the
company’s modernisation. They are, however, a significant part of the
solution if implemented with our other recommendations, especially
partnership.

85

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
164.

Detailed practical arrangements for transferring the risk associated with
the pension liabilities should be a matter for Government. Options might
include, for example, legislation to take over relevant assets and
liabilities of the scheme and pay benefits from general taxation; the
purchase of annuities; or the operation of a separate, managed fund. As
part of this process, Government would need to obtain state aid approval
from the European Commission.

We recognise that the long term impact on public finances arising from
risks such as longevity could be significant. Nevertheless, we believe that
the recommendation is consistent with our objective to reduce the risk
to public finances and, therefore, to the taxpayer. It does not require the
Government to fund the full deficit immediately. And by removing a very
significant financial risk and business constraint, the transfer of historic
pension liabilities from Royal Mail would result in a compensating uplift
in the value of Government's equity stake in the business.

86

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Changes to the regulatory regime

This section describes the reasons why changes to the regulatory regime are
now necessary and outlines the panel’s recommendations for Government. It
also considers more detailed issues which will fall to the regulator.

Summary:

> Ofcom should be appointed to regulate the postal sector, reflecting its
connections with the broader communications sector.

» While regulation and competition can encourage Royal Mail to become more
efficient, changes to the regulatory regime alone will not be sufficient to
ensure modernisation.

> The regulator needs a new set of tools to regulate the sector: wider reaching
regulatory powers, formal market analysis, and a significantly improved
understanding of the costs of Royal Mail’s business.

» The regulator should take an approach which balances the benefits of
competition with the risks to the universal service. Preserving the universal
service should remain the regulator’s primary duty.

» The access regime has brought benefits and should be continued, but the
system of ‘access headroom’ should be reviewed. Moving to an alternative

system would first require progress on achieving cost transparency.

» There should be clearer accountability to Parliament and to the public for the
provision of the universal service.

87

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
A new regulator for a changing market

Ofcom should be 166.

appointed the new
regulator for the
postal sector, to
reflect growing links
with the broader
communications
sector.

167.

168.

Part 2 described how the explosion in digital media has changed the
demand profile for postal services, and has prompted an overall decline
in the volume of letters. Post is increasingly part of a much wider
communications sector, in competition with broadcasters, internet
providers, and telephone companies. Indeed, e-substitution had a much
greater impact on Royal Mail’s performance in 2007-8 (reducing
operating profit by £500 million) compared with postal competition (a
reduction of £100 million). Despite increasing competition from digital
media, it is highly likely that Royal Mail retains market power in the
provision of some postal products. Focusing regulation on the areas
where Royal Mail’s market power lies will require a regulator which can
set post within this broader communications context.

We therefore recommend that responsibility for regulating the postal
sector should be transferred from Postcomm to Ofcom. This reflects the
practice in other European countries such as Netherlands, Sweden and
Germany where the regulation of post and telecoms is integrated. Box
13 describes the duties and organisation of the two organisations. We
believe appointing Ofcom is appropriate because:

>» it has a deep understanding of the communications media which are
increasingly interacting with the postal sector: broadcasting, instant
messaging, telephony, email and the internet.

> it has experience of regulating markets undergoing rapid
technological change, including the switch from analogue to digital
television, the convergence of digital media (television, broadband,
internet) and the growth of mobile broadband.

» it has specific experience of creating a regulatory framework for a
large company — BT — facing the challenge of modernisation and
liberalisation.

There are a number of other practical considerations which support the
transfer of regulatory responsibilities.

> Asa larger organisation of some 850 staff, compared to around 70 at
Postcomm, Ofcom benefits from economies of scale. It is able to
offer a broader range of opportunities for its staff. It can also attract
and develop deeper expertise on particular aspects of regulation.

> A regulator with a range of range of responsibilities can be more
efficient in allocating resources to meet the most difficult and time-
consuming stages of price control negotiations.

> Ofcom has experience of formal market analysis, the exercise of
competition law powers and achieving cost transparency. We
believe that these will be an essential part of the regulator’s toolkit.

> Appointing Ofcom would move away from the current system in
which Postcomm’s regulations are focused exclusively on one
company: Royal Mail. This structure is one cause of the difficult
relationship between the company and Royal Mail. Ofcom already

838

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
169.

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

regulates a number of companies of a size comparable with Royal
Mail, including BT, British Sky Broadcasting and Vodafone. The
transition would also present an opportunity for a fresh start.

There are two risks associated with this recommendation: that new

responsi

ies could impede Ofcom’s work on other priorities, and that

the attention needed by the postal sector (particularly during the
preparation of the next price control) could be diluted as it is subsumed
into a wider policy agenda. The new regulator will need to ensure that
both these concerns are addressed in planning the transition and

managing resources in the longer term.

Box 13: Who are Postcomm and Ofcom ?

PosTcomM™

Postcomm shall exercise its
functions in a manner which
it considers is best
calculated to:

Primary
Duties:

{a) to ensure the provision
of the universal service; and
subject to (a),

(b) to further the interests of
users of postal services,
wherever, appropriate by
promoting effective
competition between postal
operators.

Postal Services Market
(universal services and items
weighing less than 350
grams or costing less than
£1).

Regulates:

Staff: 70

Annual £10m

Budget:

Competition No
law powers:

Non-Ministerial Government
Department

Legal status:

Established Postal Services Regulations
by: 1999 and empowered by
Postal Services Act 2000

89

It shall be the principal duty of
Ofcom, in carrying out their
functions to:

{a) further the interests of
citizens in relation to.
communications matters; and
{b) to further the interests of
consumers in relevant
markets, where appropriate by
promoting competition

Communications industries,
including television, radio,
telecommunications and radio
spectrum allocation.

850

£130m

Statutory corporation without
shareholders

Office of Communications Act
2002 empowered by
Communications Act 2003
Regulation has
three main roles in
the postal sector.

Changes to
regulation alone
will not be
sufficient to bring
about the
modernisation of
Royal Mail.

The role of regulation

170.

171.

Regulation has three main roles in the postal sector.

>

Regulation is needed to ensure that the universal service is provided
to the specification set out in the Postal Services Act”’. Because the
universal service has features which are not profitable (such as the
delivery of letters to some high cost areas or certain service quality
standards), it is unlikely that the universal service would be provided
in its current form in the absence of regulation.

Regulation is required to protect consumers. Because competition in
some parts of the postal sector is limited, regulation is needed to
prevent Royal Mail from charging excessive prices’.

Regulation can play a role in the modernisation of Royal Mail, by
creating incentives to improve the efficiency of its operations. This
will not, however, be sufficient on its own to achieve the necessary
transformation of the business.

Regulation can deliver these objectives using two main instruments:

>

Direct ex ante” controls on prices and service standards. The
regulator can, for example, constrain the ability of Royal Mail to raise
prices for bulk mail by imposing price caps which prevent excessive
pricing. Or the regulator can specify the minimum percentage of
first class mail which should be delivered the next day.

By facilitating competition within the postal sector. Postcomm has
required Royal Mail to give other postal companies access to its
delivery infrastructure, for example. This has enabled the
development of competition for bulk mail products which, in turn,
curbs Royal Mail’s ability to charge excessive prices or lower the
quality of its service in this part of the market”.

Limitations on the role of regulation

172.

It is equally important to understand the limitations of regulation and
competition, and why changes to the regulatory regime alone will not be
sufficient to bring about the modernisation of Royal Mail.

>

Direct, ex ante regulation can create pressure on a company to
become more efficient. But, in order to reduce costs, the company
must also have strong incentives to create value for its shareholders.

” More detail is given in Box 1 of this report.

” Excessive pricing is normally defined as allowing a business to sustain profits higher than it could
expect to earn in a competitive market (also described as ‘supernormal profits’). Despite the growth
of digital competition and liberalisation of the postal market, Royal Mail is likely to retain the ability to
charge excessive prices in some parts of the market, particularly for residential consumers.

” Ex ante means ‘before the event’. See Box 14 for further discussion.

™ When competition is sufficiently developed to protect consumers, the regulator can remove ex ante
regulation and move to ex post regulation. See Box 14.

90

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
>» Well designed regulation will minimise the constraints on a
company’s ability to innovate. But regulation is not a mechanism
which directly encourages companies to develop new products and
streams of revenue.

» The introduction of postal competition will strengthen Royal Mail’s
incentives to modernise, but the introduction of competition on its
own will not be enough to ensure modernisation. Royal Mail needs
the commercial confidence, access to capital and access to corporate
experience to modernise and respond to the challenges of
competition.

The regulator’s duties

Ofcom’s duties 173.

should reflect that

maintaining the

universal service is

of primary

importance. 174.
175.

We have argued from the beginning of this report that the universal
service has an important social and economic function, and that it should
be maintained. We recommend that, as postal regulator, Ofcom’s
primary duty should be to maintain the universal service. Ofcom should
promote competition where appropriate.

This recommendation is consistent with Ofcom’s existing statutory
framework. Under this framework, the regulator has separate and
specific primary duties in relation to broadcasting, spectrum and
telecommunications. Each of these must be secured in accordance with
its principal duty to pursue the interests of citizens in communications
matters and the interests of consumers in relevant markets. Ofcom
should, therefore, be required to secure the provision of the universal
service as its primary duty in relation to post, to fulfil its overriding duty
to citizens and consumers in postal matters.

Because the development of the mail market is inherently uncertain, we
recommend that Ofcom should adopt a risk based approach to the
protection of the universal service. This involves planning a regulatory
response to a broad range of scenarios, from the rapid development of
end-to-end competition, to a more limited increase in the number of
companies providing upstream services. The regulator also needs to plan
for the market to decline at various rates, now that the combination of
cyclical and structural change is making mail volumes more difficult to
predict.

Regulatory tools

176.

Ofcom will need to be granted new powers, and develop a new set of
analytical tools to fulfil its duties in relation to the postal sector.

Formal market analysis

Ofcom will need a 177.

new set of tools to
regulate the postal
sector.

There has not yet been a formal analysis of the markets within the postal
sector. We recommend that Ofcom conducts a thorough and
comprehensive analysis of the postal services which are in competition,
and the extent to which Royal Mail has market power in each segment.

91

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
178.

RLIT0000206

RLIT0000206

Crucially, the exercise should take into account the emerging links
between postal services and the wider communications sector.

We believe that this is the essential foundation for designing a regulatory
regime which focuses ex ante regulation on those areas where Royal Mail
exhibits dominance. It will create a stronger, more objective evidence
base, increase certainty for all those involved, and set clearer criteria for
regulation. A similar methodology has been adopted in other sectors,
such as telecoms, energy and airports, particularly at the point where
deregulation is under consideration. Ofcom has extensive experience of
conducting market analysis exercises of this kind.

Regulatory powers

Ofcom willneedto 179.

be granted wider
powers to regulate
the postal sector.

Unlike other UK sectoral regulators”, Postcomm does not have
concurrent competition law powers. (These are also known as ex post
powers. See Box 14). Granting the postal regulator competition law
powers would bring benefits for the market as a whole:

» For competitors and consumers, the regulator would have a more
powerful set of tools at its discretion to investigate anti-competitive
behaviour. The regulator’s powers of investigation would no longer
be restricted by Royal Mail’s licence. Ofcom would, therefore, be
able to investigate conduct in any aspect of the postal services
market.

>» For Royal Mail, competition law powers would remove a barrier to
future deregulation. The regulator is better equipped to remove
products and services from the ex ante price control if it has the
assurance that it can take suitable action in the case of a dominant
company abusing its market power.

Box 14: Ex ante and ex post regulation

Ex ante regulation aims to stop something that is undesirable from happening
before it causes damage. Examples of ex ante regulation include price controls
under the RPI-X model which aim to prevent excessive pricing, and access
headroom control which aims to prevent anti-competitive pricing behaviour.

Ex post economic regulation relies on the application of competition legislation
after anti-competitive behaviour has taken place. It can result in significant
penalties, including criminal sanctions, if allegations are proven correct. These
penalties provide companies with incentives not to engage in anti-competitive
conduct.

There is trade-off in the use of ex ante and ex post regulation. In general, ex ante
regulation sets more constraints for Royal Mail, but provides competitors and
customers with more certainty and protection against anti-competitive behaviour.
Ex post regulation would be more flexible for Royal Mail, but offers competitors
and customers less certainty, particularly because remedies can take a long time to
apply. It is possible that an ex post remedy could take too long for some
competitors to survive in business in the face of anti-competitive behaviour.

7 Other sectoral regulators have concurrent powers to apply the Competition Act 1998 or to apply
Part 4 of the Enterprise Act 2002. This enables them to make market references to the Competition
Commission and accept undertakings in lieu of making references.

92
Rapid progress is
needed to agree
Royal Mail’s costs.

180.

We recommend that, in transferring the duty of regulating the postal
sector, the Government legislates to grant Ofcom concurrent,
competition law powers for the postal sector. Ofcom already has
experience of exercising competition law powers for its existing portfolio.

Cost transparency

181.

182.

183.

There has been persistent disagreement between the regulator and
Royal Mail about the allocation of the company’s costs. This lack of
transparency is evidenced by the disagreements about the appropriate
level of access headroom, and whether downstream access services are
provided at a loss or profit. Although achieving cost transparency is a
challenge shared by postal regulators across Europe”, we have been
struck by the lack of agreement between Royal Mail and Postcomm
about even the most basic statistics. A shared understanding of costs
would bring benefits for all concerned.

» It would improve the quality of information available to Royal Mail to
manage its business operations.

» It would enable the regulator to monitor whether the universal
service remains sustainable, and to assess the scope for efficiency
savings within Royal Mail when setting price controls.

» Cost transparency would reassure alternative carriers that the
regulator could respond effectively to any complaints about anti-
competitive behaviour by Royal Mail.

> It would also answer the complaint often voiced that Royal Mail
subsidises its competitors in relation to the access regime.

A further delay in reaching a suitable level of agreement about costs with
the regulator would be unacceptable. We believe it should be possible to
reach a substantial agreement about Royal Mail’s costs within the next
12 months. In our view, improved cost transparency must be achieved
before the regulator can consider alternatives to the current ‘headroom’
system of regulating downstream access.

We recommend that Ofcom should:

> regard cost transparency as a major priority.

» build its own detailed model of costs, in consultation with Royal
Mail.” This has been the practice in other sectors, such as

telecommunications.

» consider how developing a system of separate accounts for different
parts of Royal Mail’s network could improve cost transparency.

7° Main developments in the postal sector (2006-2008), ECORYS report for the European Commission,
page 74.

"The model should include the ability to measure the long-run incremental costs of products (LRIC).

93

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RPI-X and promoting eft

RPI-Xhas beenless 134.

effective in
promoting
efficiency in the
public sector than
the private sector.

185.

Box 15: Why is achieving cost transparency so difficult?

>» — In network industries, it can be difficult to identify the cost of particular
products (first class mail, for example) because many products use the
same systems. Nearly all postal products, for example, use Royal Mail's
nationwide delivery network (which represents around 44% of Royal
Mail’s costs).

> Because the cost of measuring the volume of letters is high compared to
the revenue generated by those letters, it can be difficult to justify
significant costs per item to measure the volume and mix of products in
an accurate way.

> — Ina sector dominated by one company, the regulator is dependent on
Royal Mail to provide detailed information about its business. There are
no comparable firms which the regulator can use to act as a benchmark
for Royal Mail’s performance.

> Before liberalisation of the postal market, Royal Mail did not need to
collect data in a form suitable for an economic regulator to examine.
Meeting the regulator’s requirements involves building new systems to
compile cost information.

jency

Royal Mail’s prices are controlled by the RPI-X regime. This is a form of
direct price control which was designed for use in the privatised utilities.
By constraining the price which Royal Mail can charge for postal
products, it creates incentives for management to make the company
more efficient”®. Shareholders will only achieve an adequate return if the
company meets efficiency targets set by the regulator. In the private
sector, shareholders and city analysts exert strong pressure on
management to do so, signalled through a company’s share price, and
with the threat of takeover if the company fails to achieve the
performance that the market believes is possible.

Royal Mail has no shares quoted on an exchange. Having the
Government as sole shareholder removes the possibility of trading shares
and the threat of takeover. Moreover, Government has multiple and
conflicting economic, employment and_ political objectives. Our
recommendations about partnership will make the RPI-X system more
effective by giving Royal Mail stronger incentives to maximise efficiency.

™ A second objective of the RPI-X mechanism is to prevent excessive pricing. The system works well in
achieving this objective.

94

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Competition can
support the
universal service ...

.. but may bring
risks in certain
circumstances.

A risk-based approach to regulation

Benefits of competition for the universal service

186.

Competition from other postal operators, or more widely across the
communications sector, can support the universal service” by:

> encouraging Royal Mail to reduce its costs and, therefore, to become
more efficient.

> encouraging product innovation. Innovation creates new streams of
revenue which support the universal service.

Impact of competition on Royal Mail’s revenues

187.

188.

Competition may also bring risks in certain circumstances. Because Royal
Mail is currently the only company with the infrastructure required to
deliver a universal service, its financial health is critically important to
sustaining the universal service. Yet the introduction of postal
competition reduces Royal Mail’s revenue. Whether the introduction of
competition will threaten the universal service is an empirical question
which depends on:

> the extent of market share which postal competitors achieve;
» the rate of market decline driven by e-substitution; and

» the potential for Royal Mail to deliver efficiency savings and innovate
in response to competition.

The company has said that it can reduce its cost base by £1.2 billion: 20%
of its current total costs. We believe that there is more than enough
potential in cost savings at Royal Mail to make up for the impact of postal
competition and market decline in most scenarios. In its submission to
the Review, Royal Mail welcomed competition. It argued that — by
accelerating modernisation - the company could finance the universal
service from profits in spite of liberalisation and structural decline in the
volume of letters.

Competition and the universal service constraint

189.

The universal service places a constraint on Royal Mail which changes the
economics of the postal market. Competition in the postal sector is
asymmetric. While the obligation to provide a universal service rests
with one company, Royal Mail, alternative carriers have no restrictions
on their business models. As a result, some forms of competition can be
inefficient and undesirable.

7° For a review of the empirical evidence which suggests that competition drives efficiency gains and
innovation, see for example ‘The impact of liberalisation on efficiency: a survey’ 2002. Frontier
Economics.

95

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Ofcom should
take a risk-based
approach to
promoting
competition within
the postal sector.

190.

191.

192.

193.

194,

“Cherry picking” has been used to describe a situation in which
competitors take advantage of Royal Mail’s universal service constraint
to compete in a way to which Royal Mail is unable to respond. Box 16
shows how the requirement to charge a uniform price across the country
could, in theory, lead to “cherry picking” and a spiral of events in which
unit costs rise and the universal service becomes unsustainable.

A system of cost-reflective pricing for access products has been
introduced by Royal Mail to protect against cherry picking based on the
uniform tariff. In our view, this system represents a reasonable response
to the risk.

Box 16: The theory of an unsustainable spiral.

A spiral could occur, in theory, because of a misalignment of costs and prices
caused by a uniform pricing constraint, making it attractive for competitors to
enter where this misalignment is most pronounced. The risk of this spiral
occurring in practice depends on:

» the extent to which costs vary according to routes within the network;
> the ease by which entrants can gain market share;
» the extent to which this fuels an increase in Royal Mail’s unit costs; and

> whether an increase in price leads to further losses in volume.

Competition is asymmetric in other ways. While Royal Mail is obliged, as.
the universal service provider, to carry out one delivery on six days of the
week, other postal companies may in the future opt to provide a service
which delivers on just two or three. Potentially, this would offer Royal
Mail’s competitors a cost advantage. On the other hand, Royal Mail
derives benefits from the universal service: a strong brand, large
economies of scale and scope, and an exemption from VAT, all of which
are unavailable to competitors. Whether Royal Mail benefits from the
obligation to carry out the universal service, or is disadvantaged, depends
on the weight given to these factors. The regulator will need to take a
balanced view of these issues to ensure fair competition.

In conclusion, we believe that competition brings benefits for consumers
in the postal market, as it has in the wider communications sector. By
creating pressure on companies to be more efficient and create new
streams of revenue, it will support the universal service. But there are
some risks too. Competition reduces Royal Mail’s revenue available to
support the universal service. And some forms of competition may be
inefficient if they simply exploit the constraint placed on Royal Mail to
provide the universal service.

We believe these risks can be managed in the foreseeable future if the
regulator takes a proportionate approach to competition and if Royal
Mail is given the appropriate incentives and freedom to modernise its
business quickly and effectively. Our recommendations on partnership,
therefore, are essential if the process of liberalisation is to be consistent
over the longer term with sustaining the universal service.

96

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
195.

If it becomes clear that the potential for efficiency gains is slowing in the
longer term, and the tensions between competition and the universal
service become more pronounced, it may be that the Government will
need to consider introducing a new funding methodology, such as a
compensation fund or direct government subsidy, in order to maintain
the current specification of the universal service. But that is neither
necessary nor desirable now, while there is significant scope to reduce
the costs of the national network.

The regulatory framework

The downstream access regime

The downstream 196.

access regime has
brought benefits,
and should be
continued.

197.

198.

Ofcom should 199.

review the current
“headroom”
system of
regulating access.

Competition in the collection, sorting and transportation of letters is
made possible by the system of downstream access — where competitors
use the Royal Mail’s national network to deliver letters over the final
mile. To assess the benefits of this access regime, it is important to
compare the situation now with the position which would have been
reached if Royal Mail had retained its monopoly. We are clear that the
access regime has brought benefits. Large businesses have greater
choice, lower prices and better assurance about the quality of service.
We believe that, over time, these benefits will be extended to smaller
businesses.

Whilst access competition has so far been predominantly based on price,
and there has been less innovation than might have been hoped, the
situation is still fundamentally better than one of a monopoly. We
recommend, therefore, that downstream access should be continued.

The UK access regime differs from the approach used by other countries
in two ways:

> Royal Mail is required to allow other postal companies access to its
national network on a non-discriminatory basis. Very few other
countries operate a mandatory regime in this way.

» the price which Royal Mail charges other postal companies to deliver
their mail over the final mile is regulated through a system of access
headroom (see Box 17). We are aware of no other country which
has a comparable system.

The combination of mandatory access and headroom regulation were
designed to kick-start competition in the postal sector. Postcomm hoped
that other postal companies would use the downstream access
arrangements to generate the economies of scale which they needed to
build their own delivery networks. In reality, however, end-to-end
competition has declined since the 2006-7 financial year®°. Some have
argued that the access regime (along with other factors such as VAT) may
have dissuaded alternative carriers from developing their own end-to-
end networks because the regime results in an access price which is too
low”.

® Source: Postcomm.

*" The access price affects competitors ‘make or buy’ decisions with respect to delivery services. If the
access price is low then, other things equal, a competitor would rather use Royal Mail’s delivery
network than set up its own alternative delivery network. Conversely, a higher access might
encourage competitors to set up their own delivery networks.

97

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

200. We recommend that the regulator should review three aspects of the
access regime:

> The access headroom margin is not directly related to Royal Mail’s
upstream costs. As Royal Mail’s costs change over time, the level of
headroom does not. As a result, the margin available for
competitors to enter the upstream market could be too large for
some products (encouraging inefficient entry) and too small for
other products (discouraging efficient entry).

» Headroom may dilute some of Royal Mail’s incentives to become
more efficient. Royal Mail cannot pass upstream cost savings
through to lower retail prices without also having to cut its access
price. If Royal Mail does not wish to cut its access price, it has less
incentive to reduce retail prices and upstream costs”.

>» There is uncertainty whether access services are currently being
provided by Royal Mail at a loss or a profit. Some stakeholders
have claimed that Royal Mail is effectively subsidising competitors in
being required to provide access services at a loss. Royal Mail’s
activity-based costing system suggests that access services made an
operating loss of £48m in 2006-7". In its second submission to the
panel, Postcomm reported preliminary results from a service-based
costing methodology which suggested that access products made a
small profit for 2006-7. This uncertainty demonstrates the need for
improved cost transparency. It is, however, clear that the scale of
potential loss from access services is small compared with the cost
savings which Royal Mail has identified as necessary.

Box 17: Access headroom regulation

In postal services, there are two main prices:

> the retail price: the price of carrying an item of mail end to end; and

> the wholesale access price: essentially the price paid for delivery. This
price excludes the cost of ‘upstream’ collection, sorting and
transportation,

Margin squeeze occurs when a vertically integrated business, supplying
wholesale services to its competitors and competing in the same retail markets
as those competitors, reduces its retail prices while holding or increasing its
access price to the point where its competitors’ margins become too low to
make their business viable.

Under the current price control, margin squeeze is restricted through the use of
an access headroom control. This control maintains a fixed margin, or
“headroom”, between a set of access prices and their Royal Mail “reference”
retail prices. Consequently, if Royal Mail increases a relevant access price or
lowers a relevant retail price, it must reflect that change in the corresponding
access or retail price to maintain the headroom.

“This point should not be overstated. Cutting costs in the upstream can still be beneficial, even if
these cost savings cannot be passed through into lower prices.

® Postcomm’s second submission to the panel, table 6, page 63,.

™* Source: Royal Mail regulatory financial statements 2007-8. The 2006-7 accounts were restated to
align the treatment of property now held by Royal Mail Estates.

98
201.

It will be for Ofcom to assess the benefits of access regulation and
consider viable alternatives. This is a technical matter which requires
significant detailed analysis of which Ofcom has strong experience in
relation to telecommunications. We do not propose to constrain
Ofcom’s ability to make a judgement. But it may be helpful to offer some
contributions to the debate.

We believe that significant progress on cost transparency, and a
formal market analysis are prerequisites for any alternative to access
headroom.

An alternative to headroom must provide adequate protection
against margin squeeze. This could be facilitated through the use of
separate accounts for different parts of Royal Mail’s network, in
particular the upstream and downstream elements.

Our view is that, in future, a regulatory regime should not seek to
favour any particular type of competition, but should be neutral
towards the form of entry in the postal market, in particular
between access-based competition and end-to-end competition.
The current regime may provide more incentive for access-based
competition over end-to-end competition. One option for achieving
a neutral approach would be to introduce a system of cost-based
access prices.

Under the current framework, access prices are set by a process of
negotiation between Royal Mail and the access seeker™. The
regulator should consider the case for directly setting the price for
access to Royal Mail’s network. This approach would enable the
regulator to set a price which is reflective of downstream costs and
would be more transparent. The access price could also include an
efficiency target, to encourage downstream cost reduction over
time.

While competition has developed very quickly in the upstream bulk
mail market, Royal Mail is likely to retain significant market power
for the foreseeable future in the delivery of letters and, therefore,
the provision of access services. Our view is that, in these
circumstances, relying on ex post competition law to regulate
downstream access is unlikely to be suitable.

As a way to ensure non-discriminatory access to Royal Mail’s
network, we have considered the case for separating Royal Mail’s
delivery network (effectively a monopoly) from the upstream
function, in a model similar to that of BT Openreach. In current
circumstances, we do not believe that this option is a proportionate
way of ensuring non-discriminatory access to Royal Mail’s network.
Separation in the telecommunications sector followed consistent
problems of non-price discrimination. We have not uncovered
evidence to suggest that this problem exists in the postal sector to

The regulator has the power to determine the access price in the event of disagreement between

the access seeker and Royal Mail. Royal Mail’s expectations about what price the regulator is likely to
determine in the event of disagreement will therefore have an influence on the access price Royal Mail
negotiates. The outcome of the negotiation is also likely to reflect the relative bargaining strength of
the parties and will not necessarily produce a cost based access price.

99

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
There is scope to
reduce regulation
on Royal Mail

any comparable degree. Moreover, the growth of upstream
competition has exceeded the regulator's predictions, suggesting
that the need to implement a radical solution to protect the
development of postal competition is not currently necessary.

> Any changes will need to be clearly signalled and phased to allow
competitors time to adjust their business models.

The potential for deregulation

202.

203.

204,

Royal Mail is the subject of three types of ex ante regulation:

» the requirement to offer a product as part of the universal service.
These are products which, in Postcomm’s view, may not be provided
by the market unless regulated and should be protected for
consumers. Designating a product as part of the universal service
ensures that it is provided across the UK and at a uniform price.

> a control on the prices charged for particular products. This
mechanism protects the consumer from excessive prices in areas of
the market where competition has yet to develop.

» requirements to meet particular standards may be imposed by the
regulator on any product contained in Royal Mail’s licence.

Evidence suggests that there is potential to reduce the ex ante controls
‘on Royal Mail over time, allowing the company more flexibility to
introduce new products and services more quickly. Alternative carriers
have quickly acquired 40% of the upstream bulk mail business market
and large companies are making much greater use of customer direct
access arrangements than expected. Lower prices and innovation are
evidence that the bulk mail market is becoming increasingly competitive.

We believe that there is a strong case for Ofcom to consider whether
competition is sufficiently well-developed to remove bulk mail products,
Mailsort 1400 and Cleanmail*’, from the universal service specification.
This would focus the universal service on social products and the
remaining business products (such as metered mail) for which there is so
far little competition. Decisions about whether these and other products
should continue to be price controlled will depend on the formal analysis
of the market recommended earlier, and progress in achieving cost
transparency.

Value added tax

205.

VAT is a matter for Government, within the framework of the EU VAT
directive’. itis clearly outside the regulator’s control. That said, the VAT
status of postal companies has important implications for the
development of competition and therefore the regulation of the sector.

*° Both Mailsort 1400 and Cleanmail both have first and second class options. All four products are
designated as universal service products under the existing regime.
*’ The Sixth VAT Directive (77/388/EEC)

100

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The European
Court is expected
to rule on Royal
Mail’s VAT
exemption in the
next few months

206.

207.

208.

209.

210.

Royal Mail is currently exempt from VAT. This status derives from
European legislation which exempts supplies made by “public postal
services” and the sale of stamps from VAT. As the legislation has been
applied in the UK, all postal services supplied by Royal Mail Group are
exempt from VAT. This means that, unlike its competitors, Royal Mail
does not charge VAT to its customers. But it also means that Royal Mail
is unable to recover a significant portion of the VAT it has to pay when
purchasing goods and services such as fuel for its vehicles, or sorting
machinery. This adds to Royal Mail’s costs and restricts flexibility in its
business. For example, the VAT exemption constrains the company’s
ability to contract out parts of its business and operations.

Royal Mail’s unique VAT status has only a limited impact for customers
who themselves supply goods and services liable for VAT. This is because
these customers — roughly half the market — can reclaim any VAT charged
to them by one of Royal Mail’s competitors. For the remainder of the
market — principally financial services charities and businesses who are
unable to reclaim VAT — Royal Mail’s VAT exemption does provide the
company with an advantage over its competitors, particularly
competitors considering setting up their own delivery networks.

Various proposals have been made in the past, by the regulator and
others, concerning how this position should be addressed going forward.
Consumers who are currently VAT exempt, including charities, have
expressed concerns regarding the increase in their postal costs that
would result from the removal of Royal Mail’s exemption. There are also
broader concerns that price rises could accelerate the decline in overall
market volumes. All these concerns have some degree of validity: while
there are some clear losers under the current position, there are others
who would be adversely affected by any change.

The inconsistency in how the exemption in the VAT Directive has been
implemented across Europe has also been identified as a wider issue for
competition in the European postal market. Following legal action
concerning Royal Mail’s exemption, the European Court of Justice is
expected to rule in 2009 on the correct application of the exemption.
The Court’s ruling will be binding on all member states, including the UK.
It is possible that the Court could rule that the scope of the exemption
should be restricted — for example to exclude services such as bulk mail.
Or it could rule in favour of the UK’s current interpretation of the
exemption as applying to all of Royal Mail’s services.

There is a significant degree of uncertainty for all stakeholders — Royal
Mail, its competitors, and consumers — about the future of the
exemption. There are, however, strong arguments that the Government
should wait for the Court’s ruling in the next few months, rather than
considering any changes now. When the Court does make its decision,
the Government and the regulator will need to consider the implications
carefully. Although any change may reduce one factor which distorts
competition, there may also be other implications in terms of the effect
on Royal Mail’s finances®. It is important that any adverse effects on the
universal service can be mitigated.

** Royal Mail's own modelling suggests removing or restricting its current VAT exemption would have
an adverse impact on EBIT of between £10M and £250M per annum by 2013/14, depending on the
nature of the change to the VAT exemption and its effect on competition.

101

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
211.

We are not in a position to take a view on the matters of law being
addressed by the Court. But in terms of policy for the postal sector, it
does appear to us that the balance of the arguments is against the
indefinite continuation of the exemption in its current form, and
therefore in favour of change. In particular, if the justification for the
exemption is to offset the additional burdens that Royal Mail bears as the
universal service provider, then as a policy measure it is poorly targeted
and has wider adverse consequences for the sector as a whole. In the
longer term, therefore, if the Court’s ruling does not change the current
position in the UK, we believe that there is a strong case for revisiting the
exemption as it currently stands so that it applies only to products
associated with the universal service.

Shared responsibility but clear accountability

212.

213.

214.

215.

The universal service is the primary public service obligation placed on
Royal Mail. Royal Mail is responsible for organising its activities so that it
can deliver its obligations alongside its other commercial activities. But
it does so in a framework that is set by Parliament, and by the regulator.

» Parliament has the responsibility for setting, through primary
legislation, the high level requirements for the universal service in
the UK, reflecting also the requirements in European law”.

> The regulator has the responsibility for securing the provision of the
universal service. The future of the universal service is central to
many of the regulator’s decisions, for example on market
liberalisation and regulatory price controls. And it also decides,
after consultation, which of Royal Mail’s different products and
services should fall within the scope of the universal service, and
which should be provided on a purely commercial basis.

There is, therefore, a shared responsibility for the provision of the
universal service. This is for good reasons. Parliament should set the
broad public service requirements for the service; but it is not in a
position to make more detailed regulatory decisions regarding how that
is best secured, or how the Royal Mail should organise its activities to
deliver the required service.

With a sharing of responsibility goes the need for clear accountability.
We believe that as part of safeguarding the future of the universal
service, there is a need to strengthen current mechanisms for
accountability. And because the universal service is a public service, that
primary responsibility should be to Parliament and to the public more
widely.

Despite the central importance of the universal service, we have been
struck by the lack of clear and specific mechanisms which provide
effective public accountability for its delivery. For example although
there is reference to the universal service in the regulator’s annual report
to Ministers (which is published and laid before Parliament), this is in the
context of a range of other matters covering the full range of its

" The 1997 Postal Services Directive, 97/67EC.

102

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
There should be
clearer
accountability to
Parliament and to
the public for the
provision of the
universal service.

functions. We doubt whether the current mechanisms are sufficient or
appropriate going forward given the central importance of the universal
service at the core of Royal Mail’s public service obligations, and at the
core of the regulator's duties.

Box 18: Responsibility and accountability within the postal sector

Parliament

The Regulator universal service to be delivered

Royal Mail Provides the universal service

216

Respor y

Defines, through legislation, the
high level requirements
for the universal service

Sets detailed specification for

by Royal Mail

{

We recommend that the Government should strengthen public and
Parliamentary accountability for the provision of the universal service.
The regulator should provide Parliament with an annual report on
responsibilities in ensuring the provision of the universal service, with a
hearing before the BERR Select Com: fee. In turn, the regulator should
ensure that, when monitoring Royal Mail’s obligations, there is a clear
and specific focus the universal service.

103

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

From policy to practice

Sustaining the universal service

217. In carrying out this review, we have explored a number of objectives:
how to develop a vibrant postal market which can respond quickly to the
changing needs of consumers; how to reduce the risks currently facing
the taxpayer and, most important, how to maintain the universal service.
The status quo will meet none of them. That is why we describe the
current position as untenable. It is a view widely shared by consumer
organisations, postal companies, unions and the regulator. It makes a
compelling case for change.

218. Many of the problems we have described in the postal sector are the
result of complex and inter-related factors. At present, many of these
are both negative and mutually reinforcing, resulting in ‘vicious circles’:
unacceptable and unsustainable outcomes.

Figure 24: Unacceptable and unsustainable outcomes under the status
quo

‘Management
feel unsupported

Unions defend

their privileges and lack
and oppose confidence in
modernisation objectives

Universal service under
threat. Costs high and
modernisation slow.
Royal Mail insufficiently

Regulator,

responsive to customers frustrated by slow

a and burden on taxpayer, pace of change and

Government ercied a ie
constrained by "managing Royal

multiple roles
and conflicting
interests

Capital, vital
for
modernisation,
is constrained

Growing
pension burden
draws cash
from Royal

Mail

219. Our recommendations form a coherent package. A strategic partnership
for Royal Mail, action to address the historic pension deficit, and a new
regulatory regime are all required to secure a sustainable future for the
universal service. None will be sufficient on its own. But, if
implemented together, we believe that they are capable of bringing
about the structural changes that are necessary to achieve a positive
system of mutually reinforcing factors: a virtuous circle.
Figure 25: Sustainable outcomes as a result of implementing our
recommendations

LY tomar
Crloorbab date rings

the most effective, experience of
customer responsive, Confident modernisation,
and cost efficient management and capital

operating on a
commercial
basis

postal service to the
British people

Tniversal service secured.
Royal Mail is modernised
and regains its place as one
of the most effective and
efficient postal operators in

r— X

“Government takes
responsibility for historic
pension liabilities,
defines the universal
service to safeguard the Current

public interest, and then pensions costs,
withdraws are affordable

220. We are, however, clear that the modernisation of Royal Mail is most
critical to the future of the sector. With that in mind:

Regulator focuses
regulation where itis
needed, with
appropriate powers
and cost transparency
Capital, vital
for
modernisation,
is available

» The Government should move urgently to provide the whole market
with the certainty it needs to invest. The transfer of Postcomm’s
powers to Ofcom should be undertaken as swiftly as possible so that
the new regulatory regime is in place for the start of the next price
control in April 2010. This will require legislation in the current
session of Parliament.

> The process of searching for a strategic partner for Royal Mail should
begin in parallel. Likely consolidation in the European postal market
in the future means that opportunities may not recur.

> Clarity about the future of the pension deficit will be an important
part of the negotiation with a strategic partner, vital in enabling
Royal Mail to reap the benefits of modernisation and providing
certainty for scheme members.

105

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Part 5.

Annexes

106
Annex A:
List of figures

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Figure 1

Figure 2

Figure 3

Figure 4

Figure 5

Figure 6

Figure 7

Figure 8

Figure 9

Figure 10

Figure 11

Figure 12

Figure 13

Figure 14

Page

24

25

26

27

28

29

34

40

40

41

42

50

52

Title and source of evidence

External revenues of Royal Mail Group, 2007-8 by division.
Source: Royal Mail Accounts, 2007-8

Segmentation of the letters market (volume) by sender and
recipient. Source: Royal Mail, 2007-8.

Value of the UK postal market 2006-7 (£11.4 billion), by
postal type and application. Source: Postcomm’s first
submission to the panel.

The 24-hour letters process.
Access arrangements.

Impact of access competition on Royal Mail, 2007-8 by
volume (upstream) and by revenue. Source: Royal Mail

Recent survey evidence of the most valued aspects of the
postal service. Source: Postal Universal Service Obligation:
Value to the Citizen, prepared for Postwatch by Accent,
2008; The Needs of Users of the Postal Service - Customer
Survey 2007, Postcomm; and The Needs of Postal Users -
Customer Survey 2006, Roland Berger for Postcomm,
Postwatch and Royal Mail.

UK letters market, 2000-12. Source: Postcomm and Royal
Mail.

Reduction in addressed letter volumes. Source: Company
data of national operators, based on the 2007 financial year.

Royal Mail figures are based on the 2007-8 accounts.

Household penetration of key telecoms technologies,
2002-8. Source: Ofcom.

Growth in letters, compared with economic growth, 1984-
2007. Source: Royal Mail.

Indicative stages of the life cycle for different mail
applications. Source: Postcomm, 2007.

Royal Mail’s automation in context. Source: Royal Mail.

Labour costs as a proportion of revenues in 2007 (%) postal
companies across Western Europe. Source: Deutsche Bank.
Figure 15

Figure 16

Figure 17

Figure 18

Figure 19

Figure 20

Figure 21

Figure 22

Figure 23

Figure 24

Figure 25,

53

54

55

56

59

60

72

78

81

104

105

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Operating profit margins of West European postal
companies, 2007 (%). Source: Deutsche Bank.

Factors affecting Royal Mail’s operating profit margin in
2007-8 and their relative significance.

Royal Mail’s pension deficit in context of the largest deficits
among FTSE 100 companies (£ million). Source: Royal Mail
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/08. Accounting for
Pensions 2008, Lane, Clark & Peacock.

EU first class stamp prices, by weight. Source: Postcomm

Royal Mail projected profit, 2008-13 (EBITDA in £millions,
based on a managed decline scenario). Source: Postcomm’s
first submission to the panel.

Royal Mail projected cash flow, 2008-13 (£millions, based
on a managed decline scenario). Source: Postcomm’s first
submission to the panel.

Changes to national networks across Europe. Data provided
by the companies listed.

Joint ventures, strategic alliances and acquisitions in mail
by TNT and Deutsche Post , 2003-7. Source: TNT and
Deutsche Post websites. Excludes logistics, express and other
non-mail activities.

EU postal operators which have introduced private capital,
1994-2008.

Unacceptable and unsustainable outcomes under the status
quo.

Sustainable outcomes as a result of implementing our
recommendations.
Annex B:
Glossary of technical terms

Access The arrangement by which mail users and licensed
postal operators can use Royal Mail’s facilities to carry
their post for part of its journey. For example, a
company might collect bulk mail directly from a
utility, sort and transport it to one of Royal Mail’s mail
centres, and then contract with Royal Mail to deliver
these items over the final mile. See downstream
access

Access headroom Under regulation, the margin which Royal Mail must
maintain between a wholesale access price and the
relevant retail price.

Access point The point at which mail is fed into the Royal Mail
network. This can be pillar boxes, post offices,
collection from a sender’s premises, for example.

Access price The price which Royal Mail charges other companies
for downstream access. Also known as the
“wholesale” price.

Accounting deficit The difference between the total value of the pension
scheme’s assets and its liabilities, where both are
calculated according to current accounting standards
(currently known as FRS17 or IAS19). For example,
those standards require the calculation of the present
value of future liabilities by discounting at the rate of
interest payable on corporate bonds.

Actuarial deficit The difference between the total present value of the
pension scheme’s assets and its liabilities, where the
liabilities are calculated according to assumptions set
by the scheme Trustees (on the advice of the actuary)
at the time of each Triennial valuation. These
assumptions will cover key parameters such as
longevity and investment returns on different asset
classes that are set on a scheme-specific basis rather
than according to a standard approach applicable to
allschemes. It is the actuarial deficit that is used as
the basis for calculating the employer's obligation to
make payments to make good any deficit.

Advertising mail Mail for marketing and advertising purposes, sent by
businesses to consumers. Sometimes called direct
mail.

Addressed mail Mail with a named recipient.

Alternative carriers Postal companies other than Royal Mail.

109

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Application

Bulk mail

Bypass

Cleanmail

Communications market

Consumers

Cost-reflective pi

Cost transparency

Delivery office

Direct mail

Dominance

Door to door mail

Downstream

Downstream access

DPWN

EBIT

EBITDA

The mail market can be broken down by application
into five categories: transactional mail, advertising
mail, publications, social mail and fulfilment.

A large number of mail items of the same format,
posted by a single user, from a single site.

The collection, sorting, transportation and delivery of
mail using a network other than Royal Mail’s.

Aservice provided by Royal Mail which offers
customers a discount if they prepare their mail in
such a way that machines can automatically read the
addresses and sort the mail.

This includes post, email, internet, broadcasting and
telecommunications.

Large businesses, SMEs and residential consumers,
both those who send mail and those who receive it.

The practice of calculating the price of a service
according to the cost of the operations needed to
provide that service.

Ashared understanding between Royal Mail and the
regulator about the detailed cost of the company’s
postal services.

A Royal Mail facility at which mail is sorted into the
right sequence for delivering to addresses.

Mail for marketing and advertising purposes, sent by
businesses to consumers. This paper uses the term
advertising mail.

A position of economic strength enabling a business
to behave independently of competitors and

consumers.

Mail posted in bulk with no named recipients. This is
also called unaddressed mail.

The delivery of mail to addresses.

The arrangement by which alternative carriers have
access to Royal Mail's distribution systems at an
inward mail centre.

Deutsche Post World Net

Earnings before interest and taxation. This is
generally known as operating profit.

Earnings before interest and taxation, depreciation
and amortisation.

110

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
E-commerce

E-fulfilment

Economies of scale

Economies of scope

Elasticity

End-to-end

Equivalence

E-substitution

Ex ante regulation

Ex post regulation

Final mile

First mile

Fulfilment

GLS

Letters market

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Trading by the use of electronic media, particularly
the internet.

The delivery of mail containing goods ordered via the
internet.

A company has an economy of scale if its unit costs
fall as output rises.

A company has an economy of scope if it can produce
a specified output at a lower cost than two or more
companies.

Price elasticities describe the relationship between
changes in price for a product and changes in demand
for that product. High price elasticities (other things
being equal) mean that increasing the price for a
product can reduce total revenues because the higher
price leads to an offsetting fall in the product’s sales.

Aservice which comprises all parts of the postal
service chain: collection, sorting, transportation
upstream and delivery of mail to its final destination.

Asystem which ensures that mail is treated in the
same way during the process of delivery for the same
price, whether or not it was collected and sorted by
Royal Mail.

The effect of a decision by consumers to use
electronic alternatives to the postal service.

Requirements designed to prevent anti-competitive
behaviour before it arises.

Regulation designed to resolve cases of anti-
competitive behaviour in the course of events.

The process of delivering mail from one of Royal
Mail’s delivery offices to one of the 28 million
addresses in the UK.

The process of collecting mail from one of Royal
Mail’s pillar boxes or post offices.

The delivery of mail containing goods ordered by mail
order, telephone or the internet.

General Logistics Systems: a subsidiary of Royal Mail
Group.

Items which can fit through letterboxes, including
packets, delivered by any carrier. It excludes
unaddressed mail, international mail, standard
parcels, express and courier services.

111
Liberalisation

Licensed area

Mailsort

Mail centre

Margin squeeze

Outreach services

Packet

Pension deficit

Postcomm

Postwatch

Poste restante

Price cap regulation

Price elasticity

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

The process of creating a market in which companies
can compete to offer postal services. In the UK,
liberalisation has been achieved under the regulatory
framework set by the Postal Services Act 2000, and
rules laid down by Postcomm.

The area of postal activity for which postal operators
must have a licence: letters weighing less than 350g
and costing less than £1 to post.

Aservice provided by Royal Mail aimed at customers
who send large volumes of mail in the UK which
cannot be sorted by machine.

Royal Mail facility at which mail is sorted and sent toa
delivery office.

Margin squeeze occurs when a vertically integrated
business, supplying wholesale services to its
competitors and competing in the same retail
markets as those competitors, reduces its retail prices
while holding or increasing its access price to the
point where its competitors’ margins become too low
to make their business viable.

Aservice providing access to postal services in
communities where there is no permanent Post
Office. Some are mobile.

An addressed item of mail enclosing large documents,
normally sent in padded or sturdy envelopes.

The difference between the total present value of the
pension scheme’s accrued liabilities, and the value of
its assets, where the former is greater than the latter.

The regulator of the postal sector.

The national organisation which represents those
who use the postal service. On 1 October 2008, the
responsibilities of Postwatch transferred to a new
organisation, Consumer Focus.

Aservice provided by Royal Mail which allows
people travelling in the UK to pick up their mail from
a nearby post office. UK citizens travelling
internationally can arrange to pick up their mail in
larger towns abroad.

Regulator places a ceiling on the prices that Royal
Mail is allowed to charge

Price elasticity describes the relationship between
changes in price for a product and changes in demand
for that product. High price elasticities (other things
being equal) mean that increasing the price for a

112
Residential consumers

Retail price

Royal Mail

Royal Mail Group

Scale Payment Delivery
Office

SME

Social mail

State aids

Structural developments

Letters market

Transactional mail

Unaddressed mail

Uniform tariff

Universal (postal)
service

Upstream

product can reduce total revenues because the higher
price leads to a fall in the product’s sales

Those who send mail for reasons other than their
business. This includes letters, cards and packages to
family and friends.

The price which a company charges its customers for
the collection, sorting, transportation and delivery of
mail.

We use this throughout the report to refer to Royal
Mail’s letters business.

Royal Mail Group incorporates Royal Mail, Post Office
Ltd, Parcelforce WorldWide, and GLS.

Post offices, predominantly located in rural areas,
which provide premises, facilities and supervision for
Royal Mail delivery staff.

Small and medium-sized enterprises with fewer than
250 employees.

Mail sent between residential consumers.

An advantage conferred by a public authority on a
selective basis to a company with the effect of
distorting competition and trade between members
of the European Union.

Changes outside the postal market which have an
impact on mail volumes. These include the increased
use of alternative forms of communication.

The market which excludes parcels and courier
services.

Mail generated by business which is conducting a
financial transaction with consumers (such as credit
card bills or bank statements).

Mail without a named recipient, such as a leaflet or
flyer.

A single price for the delivery of mail to any address in
the UK.

Postal products and associated minimum service
standards that must be made available to all 28

million addresses in the UK.

The collection, sorting and transportation of mail to
one of Royal Mail’s mail centres.

113

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Vertical integration

Walk sorting

Walk sequencing

Zonal pricing

Where one business controls or owns all stages of the
production and distribution of goods or services.

A process in which letters are sorted into groups
which correspond with the addresses covered by each
postal worker’s ‘walk’.

The final stage of sorting mail before its delivery.
Having been walk-sorted, letters are placed in the
correct sequence for delivery.

A system of pricing which takes account of the

different costs of sending letters or parcels to
different parts of the country.

114

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Annex C:
Summary of written submissions

1 In total, 43 organisations gave evidence on the 60 questions in the
panel’s Approach Paper. Submissions were received from Royal Mail and
alternative carriers in the UK, Postcomm, Postwatch, unions representing
postal workers (CWU, Unite), the National Federation of SubPostmasters,
major users of the postal service and their representatives (including the
Federation of Small Businesses and Institute of Directors), political
parties and politicians. We also received shorter submissions, often on
particular points, from individuals and constituency MPs.

2. This summary provides an overview of these formal submissions. It has
been written to protect information which is commercially sensitive and
has been submitted on a confidential basis. It does, however, refer to
the views of individual organisations where their submissions have been
made public.

Questions about overall objectives

Question 1: What do you consider to be the essential aims of, and vision for, a
postal service in the 21" century?

3. Responses to this question were consistent. All respondents wished to
see a vibrant, competitive postal market providing high quality,
innovative services which met the needs of all customers, both business
and social.

4. Some respondents specifically referred to the need to maintain and
protect the universal service. Royal Mail said that it “absolutely” wanted
to continue to provide the universal service because of the “essential”
role it played in social cohesion across the UK. No-one said that the
universal postal service should be discontinued.

5. Many of the responses, including those from alternative carriers,
indicated that the postal services market depended on having a healthy
Royal Mail at its centre for the foreseeable future. It was also thought
that postal markets needed to evolve and be flexible enough to adapt to
meet the needs of consumers in an era where new communications
media would emerge.

6. Postal companies and others were keen that competition in the postal
services market should take place on a “level playing field”. Royal Mail
wanted to see changes to the margin for direct access products.
Alternative carriers emphasised the need to amend the tax regime so
that all postal companies paid VAT.

7. Customers and their representatives emphasised the importance of
affordable prices. They believed that higher prices would lead to a

115

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
further decline in the market. Some customers wished to see greater
certainty about pricing, as they prepared their own business plans.

All respondents recognised that mail was competing with new forms of
communication and expected that this competition would intensify over
time.

Questions about liberalisation

Question 2: What has been the impact of liberalisation so far on:

>»
>
>

Social customers sending and receiving mail
SMEs sending and receiving mail
Large companies sending and receiving mail

in terms of the price of services, the choice of services to suit particular needs, and
the quality of service.

Social consumers sending and receiving mail

Go.

SMEs sending and receiving mail

10.

11.

Evidence was mixed on this question. Some submissions pointed to the
improved quality of performance by Royal Mail as a benefit to social
users, the increased certainty about the delivery date of mail brought
about through access products and that prices remained low compared
to the rest of Europe. Others, however, believed that the service had
declined, owing to changes in Royal Mail’s operations. Changes
comprised the end of the second delivery, later delivery times, earlier
collections and withdrawal of all collections on Sunday. Some felt that
post office closures had been detrimental to the service. Others believed
that there had been little discernible change. Responses did not
differentiate between sending and receiving mail.

The general view was that small and medium-sized enterprises had not
yet benefited significantly from market liberalisation. New carriers had
focused on winning the major bulk mail contracts. While some of these
involved medium-sized businesses (21% according to surveys carried out
by the Federation of Small Businesses), there was little evidence to show
that the wider range of small companies were using alternative carriers
or that alternative carriers had focused on the needs of this sector. SMEs
in remote areas such as the Highland and Islands of Scotland were unable
to get as good a deal as those in other parts of the country. That said,
TNT and UK Mail did offer collection services for customers with low
volumes (200-250 items).

The level of satisfaction with Royal Mail varied.
» Overall, small companies were said to be broadly satisfied with Royal

Mail’s services and prices. Changes to the delivery times, however,
were a concern. Many wished to receive post earlier in the day.

116

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
» Medium-sized companies were less likely to be satisfied with Royal
Mail’s customer care and prices as competition had been introduced.
Magazine publishers strongly considered that liberalisation has been
detrimental to their interests and that they had not seen any
benefits, as prices had increased well above inflation and above
those for other Royal Mail services. Publishers also considered that
liberalisation and regulation had created more uncertainty about
postal rates.

Large companies sending and receiving mail

12.

13.

14.

The majority of respondents agreed that large companies were the main
beneficiary of market liberalisation. Switching to alternative carriers had
brought real price reductions. Large companies had seen an increase in
customer care both from alternative carriers, with some innovations
(such as the ability to track and trace mail). They also had more choice of
service delivery standards (such as the day of delivery, or the number of
days taken to deliver).

Some customers and alternative carriers did consider that, even for bulk
users, the choice of products available was limited and that two carriers
dominated this area of the market. One bulk user thought that the
division between Royal Mail Retail and Royal Mail Wholesale had an
adverse impact because the customer was forced to manage two
relationships. Others said that with various carriers offering postal
services, management and reconciliation of their postal requirements
had become more complex.

Opinion about Royal Mail’s response to competition was divided. Some
acknowledged that the company had improved its quality of service,
while others saw little change and believed that the company had failed
to adopt a dynamic approach. Some made the point that Royal Mail
continued to focus on competitors rather than the needs of its
customers.

Question 3: What has been the impact of liberalisation so far on:

vowy

people in rural areas;

people with disabilities;

senior citizens;

people in areas which receive relatively little mail.

1s.

The consensus was that services to vulnerable groups had not been
affected by liberalisation. Like other social users, they had adapted to
changes in Royal Mail’s collection and delivery schedule, and had
benefited from better performance against the company’s quality of
service targets. Royal Mail’s free service for blind people, and those
sending post to blind people, remained unchanged. Several respondents
made the point that Royal Mail’s proposals on zonal pricing — had they
been accepted by Postcomm — would have been detrimental to those
living in rural areas.

117

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 4: What has been the impact of liberalisation on Royal Mail?

16.

17.

18.

19.

Most submissions recognised that Royal Mail had lost a share of the bulk
mail market, with a negative impact on the company’s financial health.

Several respondents noted that alternative carriers had targeted the
most profitable contracts for bulk mail. They pointed out that this had an
impact on the internal cross subsidies which supported the universal
service, particularly in rural and remote areas of the country.

At the same time, almost all respondents recognised that Royal Mail still
had a dominant position in the market. Competition had mainly taken
the form of “direct access” products. End-to-end services had declined
slightly after liberalisation.

There were many references to the positive impact of competition on
Royal Mail, including greater efficiency and the company’s record
performance in meeting quality of service targets. Some believed that
Royal Mail had become more commercial. Others considered that the
company had reacted mainly defensively to competitive threat, in
particular with regard to its pricing policies, rather than providing new
services to meet the needs of consumers and introducing new products.

Question 5: What has been the impact of liberalisation on alternative carriers?

20.

All respondents recognised that liberalisation had presented an
opportunity for alternative carriers, with strong growth in the use of
access products (zero to 4 billion items in four years). Alternative carriers
said that margins were low because of pressure from Royal Mail on
pricing and pressure from other carriers seeking to gain market share.
The volume of letters which were collected, sorted and delivered by an
alternative carrier (providing an end-to-end service) had fallen since
liberalisation. Several respondents noted that two new entrants (one
using downstream access, the other operating an end-to-end network)
had withdrawn from the market. It was also suggested that other
companies, while continuing to provide services, had withdrawn from
certain product areas because of margin squeeze.

Question 6: To what extent has competition emerged since postal services were

liberalised, and what kind of competition has developed? Please consider:

>» The collection and delivery of letters, packets and parcels
> Transactional mail, direct mail, social mail and publications
>» Services for large businesses, SMEs and social consumers.

118

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
The collection and delivery of letters, packets and parcels

21,

22.

Submissions confirmed that the parcels market had been unaffected by
liberalisation. Having been opened to competition in 1981, there were
already many companies carrying parcels and packets.

Since 2000, new competition had been focused in the upstream
collection and transportation of bulk mail. There had been little
development in downstream competition. Royal Mail continued to
handle the delivery of almost all letters in the UK.

Transactional mail, direct mail, social mail and publications

a.

24,

Respondents were clear that business for transactional mail sent on a
regular basis (such as bank and credit card statements) and advertising
had moved from Royal Mail towards alternative carriers. Customers in
this area had a choice of carrier (although Royal Mail still made the final
delivery). Competition had brought lower prices.

There was no competition in providing services to social customers.
Submissions also suggested that there was little competition in the
distribution of publications. The publishing industry was dependent on
Royal Mail and pointed to price increases well above inflation in recent
years. It also believed that further increases could damage the market by
making the delivery of the publications too expensive.

Services for large businesses, SMEs and social users

25.

Respondents agreed that there had been a significant increase in
competition for the provision of services to large businesses; some
competition for services to medium-sized businesses; little competition
for services to small businesses; and none for social users. Some
considered that downstream access arrangements did not provide “real”
competition to Royal Mail. Postwatch considered that the arrangements
were like “work-sharing”. Several respondents said that the alternative
carriers providing services through downstream access had simply
mirrored Royal Mail products.

Question 7: Has liberalisation made an impact on any other groups?

26.

27.

The Communication Workers Union, Royal Mail and Postcomm all
referred to the pressure which liberalisation had applied to the number
of people employed by Royal Mail. Some respondents commented that
liberalisation had failed to improve positive and productive relations
between Royal Mail management and the CWU.

UK Mail argued that liberalisation had not succeeded in enabling post
offices to provide services for alternative carriers. The National
Federation of SubPostmasters pointed out that such a move could lead
to a complex and unmanageable system for sub-postmasters.

119

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
28. Postwatch claimed that charities and financial institutions had not
experienced the same choice as others. As customers who were exempt
from VAT, it was financially more attractive for them to do business with
Royal Mail.

29. One respondent commented that costs for mailing houses who prepare
mail for third parties had increased due to the greater complexity in mail
presentation requirements. Another thought that liberalisation offered
an opportunity to mailing houses as well as software and print
management companies.

Question 8:

and fairly?

Have Royal Mail and new entrants been able to compete effectively

30. Submissions were divided about the competitive advantages enjoyed by
Royal Mail and alternative carriers.

>

Postcomm and the alternative carriers considered that the current
VAT regime (in which Royal Mail services are exempt) created an
unfair playing field for the new entrants and a barrier to entry.
Some respondents, notably the CWU, were concerned that removing
Royal Mail’s VAT exemption would have an adverse impact for social
customers and VAT exempt organisations (such as financial
organisations and charities).

TNT also referred to the National Geographic Posting Profile as a
barrier to the introduction of end to end competition. One
respondent considered that more of Royal Mail’s delivery network
(such as post boxes) should be opened to access.

Royal Mail did not believe that it could compete effectively on price
with the alternative carriers because of the “access margin”. Royal
Mail also argued that downstream access arrangements stifle
innovation, since any benefits from new products have to be passed
to alternative carriers.

On the basis of market share, respondents agreed that alternative
carriers have been able to enter the market and to take a significant
share of the upstream market. Postcomm did, however, consider
that Royal Mail had the potential to abuse its dominant position by
raising barriers to entry or offering less favourable terms to other
operators in accessing Royal Mail’s delivery network. Some entrants
believed that Royal Mail had used its dominant position, particularly
‘on pricing, and that prices in the UK were too low to offer a
reasonable commercial return on sales or investment in the long
term. Submissions did not include evidence to prove these claims,
and there has been no action by the regulator to date to address any
anti-competitive behaviour.

Several respondents referred to the absence of any change in the
transparency in Royal Mail’s pricing since liberalisation.

120

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 9: What can we learn about liberalisation from international
experience?

31.

Submissions suggested that because of different economic
circumstances, demographics and geography across Europe, there were
no straightforward comparisons to be made, particularly when countries
were at different stages of market development. The UK had liberalised
more rapidly, and uniquely through downstream access, than other
Member States. Several respondents referred to the access
arrangements in the United States as a positive approach to market
liberalisation which would benefit the direct mail industry. There was a
general view that liberalisation of postal markets should lead, and has
led, to the incumbent postal service provider becoming more efficient.

Questions about structural changes

Question 10: Which changes in the communications market do you consider have
had an impact on postal services: (a) internet; (b) email; (c) text messaging on
mobile phones; (d) others?

Internet

32.

All respondents recognised that the increased use of the internet had
made an impact on postal services, particularly in relation to advertising
and transactional mail. Evidence showed that internet penetration is
increasing throughout the UK. The internet brought opportunities for the
mail market in the form of e-fulfilment, as well as the risk of e-
substitution. One respondent provided evidence that the industrial
action that took place in Royal Mail in 2007 has encouraged customers to
look to other means of communication to meet their needs and that the
continued use of mail had been significantly damaged. Many
respondents referred to the initiatives by some High Street banks and
utilities to incentivise their customers to receive statements, invoices etc
through electronic communication rather than post.

All respondents considered that use of email communications (including
e-cards) was increasing, and that the trend would impact on the volume
of social mail in future. Young people, in particular, were likely to use
email instead of physical mail. Respondents also said that advertisers
and on-line retailers were using email to reach potential customers.

Text messaging on mobile telephones

34,

Respondents believed that the use of text messaging was particularly
high among younger generations and would impact on the use of social
mail. Some respondents did point out, however, that text messages had
different attributes to social mail, and that short, instantaneous

121

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

RLIT0000206
messaging would not replace more traditional correspondence. There
was some evidence of small but increasing use of text messaging by
advertisers and for transactional communications. Royal Mail thought
that this practice had the potential to replace physical correspondence in
the future.

Question 11: Can you quantify these changes?

35. Several respondents referred to the internet penetration statistics
published by Ofcom. Two tables have been reproduced below from
Ofcom’s “The Consumer Experience” Research Report of November 2007
showing the increasing take up of the internet at home and the rise in
broadband as the method of connection.

Take up of Internet Access at Home
100%
PC
80% 9
—=- Internet 68% 72%
60% +------- I ‘65%
46% 57% 56%
50%
Cy mening cocina," mem
30%
LOY EEE EEE EEE EE EE EEEEEEEES
0% T T 7 T T 7
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 *2006 *2007
Trends in Connection Methods
100%
80% —
60%
@ Narrowband
40% ~~} I gm Broadband
20%
0%
Q4 2004 Q4 2005 Q2 2006 Q2 2007

122
36.

There were also references by respondents to the following:

> Internet based sales grew by 3,533% between April 2000 and
December 2006;

> British consumers spent £42bn on-line in 2007 and this was expected
to increase to £78bn by 2010;

>» 57 billion text messages were sent in 2007, with 6bn sent in
December 2007 — almost 5,000 per second;

» Average response rates in the UK for text campaigns approaches
11%;

» Holiday postcards have declined by 75% in the last ten years

Question 12: What is the relationship between e-fulfilment and e-substitution in
terms of their impact on the volume and value of postal business?

37.

38.

Royal Mail suggested that letter volumes were declining by 2-3% per
year. Its analysis showed that volume lost through e-substitution was
not replaced by e-fulfilment. The majority of respondents agreed that
this was the likely future scenario. However, because unit prices for
fulfilment (e.g. packets, parcels) are higher than for letters, the revenue
impact of e-fulfilment and e-substitution combined was expected to be
positive for the postal services market. Royal Mail estimated this to be
£0.7bn by 2014-15 at constant 2006-7 prices.

Most respondents agreed that the higher value items prompted by e-
fulfilment would only partly compensate for e-substitution. Postcomm
thought that the compensation would be significant and might, in due
course, exceed the value lost through e-substitution. Royal Mail argued
that, because of the highly competitive nature of the parcels business,
carriers which were losing business in letters were projected to gain less
than £0.1bn of the total growth of £1.6 billion projected in parcels and
packets. Royal Mail suggested that the winners would be the networks
which already provide express and courier services.

Question 13: What has been the impact of e-fulfilment and e-substitution for:

Social consumers sending and receiving mail;
SMEs sending and receiving mail;

large companies sending and receiving mail;
Royal Mail;

alternative carriers?

123

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Social consumers sending and receiving mail

39. Respondents recognised that social mail was in decline. UK Mail said that
e-substitution had now all but replaced social mail, especially among the
younger age groups. The general view was that bills, complaints and
enquiries tended to be made by email, rather than mail or telephone.
The use of internet auction sites had increased the number of packets
and parcels sent and received by social consumers, normally via Royal
Mail. Although the use of e-cards was growing, greeting cards
represented a high proportion of social mail. Some respondent indicated
that, while publishers were offering their products on line, there
remained strong demand for paper copies of magazines and journals.

40. Most respondents said that SMEs were increasingly turning to the
internet for billing and invoicing. Their incoming transactional mail had
also declined. Small businesses were most likely to use Royal Mail when
meeting orders for goods. Some medium-sized companies used
alternative carriers.

Large companies sending and receiving mail

41. Evidence suggested that e-substitution was driving the reduction in
transactional mail sent and received by large businesses. Royal Mail
pointed out that large companies were now offering customers financial
incentives not to receive statements by post. Large companies (such as
retailers) offering on-line services would be sending more
packets/parcels.

Royal Mail

42. While Royal Mail expected e-fulfilment to grow, the company did not
expect to recover revenues lost by e-substitution, because of the
competitive nature of the market for delivering parcels.

Alternative carriers

43. Evidence suggested that, so far, the impact of e-substitution and e-
fulfilment on the new entrants had been minimal. Alternative carriers
had been taking market share from Royal Mail, but were likely to be
competing in a declining market as e-substitution continued. Carriers
competing for delivery of parcels and packets had benefited from an
increase in volumes.

Questions about future scenarios

Question 14: What does international experience tell us about the challenges and
opportunities facing the UK market?

44, Respondents agreed that postal markets throughout the world were
facing similar challenges, particularly in providing a universal service
while facing competition from other communications media and volumes
were falling.

124

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 15: What factors might encourage — and discourage — the use of

electronic services as an alternative to the postal service for:

Transactional mail;

Direct mail;
Social mail;

publications;
other purposes?

45.

Mi

type

Responses

are summarised in

the

table below.

Security of

communications and the environment were the main concerns.

Transactional e

mail .
.
.
.
.
Direct mail .
.
.
.
Social mail .

Publications .

Encourage

Financial incentives
Growth in internet usage
Cheaper for sender
Convenience
Environmentally friendly
Complexity of multi-
supplier market place for
bulk mailers
Environmentally friendly
Cheaper for sender
Higher response rates

Fully trackable

Convenience
Cost
Time (instant)

Cost (no printing or
postage)
Environmentally friendly

125

Discourage

Company or consumer
concerns about internet
safety

Signature needed.

Not all households have
access to a PC

More targeted
Product samples

Email treated as spam
and deleted unread or
seen

Opt in/opt out rules
Need to send physical
item

Physical product more
personal

Physical product
important to consumers.

Cannot use inserts e.g.
samples

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 16: In particular:

(a) what advantages might consumers ascribe to paper mail, as the volume of
electronic mail increases?

(b) how far is environmental policy and regulation likely to affect the market, in
either a positive or negative way?

(c) to what extent can the postal sector successfully provide complementary
services to other media channels, including broadcasters and companies
advertising on the internet?

(d) what innovations are likely, or possible, in the development of IT hardware
and software, with implications for the postal sector?

Advantages of paper mail

46. Longer communications and publications were more easily read in paper
form, than on screen. Social users placed importance on sending and
receiving greeting cards and thank-you letters in physical form.

Environmental policy and regulation

47. Respondents believed that environmental issues were rising in profile for
the industry, both in terms of the use and recycling of paper, and carbon
emissions, particularly those generated by road transport. There was a
need for the postal industry and marketers to show that they take this
seriously and that post can be “environmentally friendly’. Initiatives
already existed to reduce waste e.g. cleansing of databases, greater use
of recycled and recyclable papers and inks. Royal Mail considered that
the impact of customers switching to other means of communication
from post because of their concerns about the environment could
amount a loss in revenue of around £350 million per year.

Complementary services

48. Respondents pointed to existing examples of co-ordination between
mail, internet and broadcasting, and generally considered that there
were opportunities to exploit wider links.

Innovations
49. Some respondents drew attention to new market offerings which printed
mail close to the point of delivery. Royal Mail highlighted the

developments in scanning equipment which would enable greater
amounts of information to be stored on mail; improved mechanisation;
and handheld technology to increase information gathering right up to
delivery. The introduction of these would enable the more efficient
handling of mail (enhanced track and trace) and produce cost savings for

126

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
postal carriers. TNT referred to development of electronic and reporting
systems by Itella in Finland and its own TNT-it service.

Question 17: Is it possible to provide evidence for these factors, as a basis for
preparing projections for the future of the mail market?

50.

51.

52.

53.

The main responses to this question were provided by Royal Mail and
Postcomm. The full detail is set out in their responses which are on their
respective websites (and the review pages on the BERR website) but
below we have picked out some highlights.

Royal Mail referred to the following

» the link between GDP growth and mail volumes had broken down
but it will still be a driver in the sector;

» consumer subscription to the Mail Preference Service had risen from
2m in 2004 to 3.7m today;

> sending one item by post generated an average of 26g of CO2;
> powering a computer for 1 minute resulted in 1.8g of CO2; and
> direct mail accounted for only 2% of landfill waste compared to 9%

for newspapers.

Postcomm provided examples of international postal operators’ product
innovation to complement digital communication. These examples were
from the USA, Germany and France and included:

» USPS’ “Carrier Pickup” provided on-line notification of collections;

> the Mailing Factory in Germany, a web based system for sending out
advertisements through various media including by post, email and
SMS/MMS; and

» La Poste had an on-line shop which also offered a paid service for
customising and sending greeting cards.

The results of a survey of its members submitted by the Institute of
Directors indicated that 51% of respondents expected to decrease their
use of Royal Mail services by 2010 and would during the same period
increase their use of the internet and email by 83%.

127

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 18: What factors may limit the ability of companies to enter the market,
or their market share:

© in providing upstream services?
¢ in providing a downstream service?
«other services?

Upstream services

54. Respondents pointed to a range of deterrents, including the absence of a
“level playing field” for competitors e.g. VAT treatment, decreasing
volumes of mail, regulation and low margins. There was also a view that
regulation stifled competition and held back developments in the sector.
Some alternative carriers and bulk mail customers were critical of Royal
Mail’s requirements for downstream access, e.g. forecasting, surcharge
for non-compliance, which they considered were operational restrictions.

Downstream service

55. There was broad agreement amongst those who provided evidence that
the costs of building a national delivery network prohibited competition
to Royal Mail. It was also considered that if delivery prices were not set
at the correct cost covering level to make Royal Mail a commercial profit,
then it would not be feasible for others to enter the market. The
National Geographic Posting Profile was considered by TNT to be the
greatest barrier to end to end competition as it contained a de facto
exclusivity clause. UK Mail suggested that downstream services could be
contracted out on a local basis.

Question 19. Are there three broad scenarios which you believe would provide a
useful framework to test policy options? (Scenarios should focus on economic,
environmental, social and technological changes outside the mail market,
assuming that current policy is maintained in relation to the postal sector). Please
give your own projections for the volume and cost of mail under each.

56. A number of respondents did not suggest any scenarios. There were,
however, substantial contributions from Postcomm and Royal Mail.

57. Postcomm set out 3 possible medium term outcomes based on its
Strategic Review exercise. These all related to the future of Royal Mail
and were:

> Managed decline of the business;
> Royal Mail going into administration; and

» Transformation of Royal Mail.

128

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
58.

59.

60.

61.

Postcomm believed that transformation of Royal Mail would have a
major impact on the size of the mail market five years from now along
with the development of digital services.

Royal Mail suggested 3 market scenarios. These were:

>» acentral case with growth in communications markets but flat or
declining growth in mails, including end to end competition;

> a downside case with a steeper decline in volumes due to
competition from alternative technologies; and

> an upside case where external developments lead to higher growth
for the mail market e.g. slowing down of e-substitution due to
security concerns and disenchantment with spam emails.

More detail on these scenarios is set out in Postcomm and Royal Mail’s
submissions.

The other suggested scenarios submitted were:

> innovation in technology provides secure email capability, proven
over a period of time and trusted by consumers, resulting in a
dramatic decrease in postal volumes and thereby requiring
significant price increases in postage prices.

> environmental concerns generate a reluctance amongst consumers
to use paper communications requiring physical transport, as both
have an adverse impact of the environment. This results in little or
no consumer to consumer mail, with the exception of seasonal post.

> there should be a regulatory regime that embraces the benefits of
service provider competition. It was suggested that this is a model
that had been proven in other network industries and ensured that
all service providers had access to key bottleneck facilities on
equivalent terms. Some respondents were of the view that this
would open the door to service innovation and economic benefits
throughout the industry.

Questions about consumer needs

Question 20: Is a delivery on each working day important to consumers, either for
social or business reasons?

62.

The overwhelming response to this question from all interested groups,
especially users and their representatives, was that the current
requirement for the delivery of mail from Monday to Saturday should
remain unchanged. This was supported by research carried out for both
Postcomm and Postwatch which indicated that 82% of social consumers
and 73% of business customers rate deliveries on 6 days per week as
either fairly important, important, or very important. Large mailers still
considered Saturday deliveries to be important. Only 36% of social

129

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
63.

64,

consumers believed that deliveries on Monday to Friday would be
sufficient.

Several reasons for not making a change to the existing six day delivery
were given by respondents. These included:

» Reduced delivery frequency would signal a declining relevance of
mail and hasten migration of advertising and transactional mail to
alternative media.

» Because many businesses operated on a Saturday, it should also be
considered a working day.

» The importance to of daily deliveries in supporting priority (next day)
products.

> The potential impact on quality of service targets.

» The dependency of a significant proportion of population on mail as
their primary communications channel.

> The increasing demand for weekend delivery, especially for signed
services.

It was noted that the reduction of the number of days mail is delivered
was an emotive subject and that the first reaction is to safeguard what is
on offer now. A small number of respondents believed that the number
of deliveries should be reduced to five (and in one case, even lower than
this over time).

Question 21: Is the time at which mail arrives important to consumers, either for
social or business reasons?

65.

66.

67.

Respondents, particularly businesses, were strongly of the view that the
time of delivery was important. Business customers — large and small -
wanted deliveries as early as possible so that they could process mail
received on a same day basis and to allow for workflow planning. Some
customer service departments opened up as early as 6am.

For social consumers, views differed but it was still considered that
delivery times were important. Those sending packets for fulfilment
considered that social consumers wanted items delivered when they
were most likely to be at home i.e. early morning or in the evening. For
most deliveries a target of 12 noon was thought to broadly meet the
needs of all users, provided that there was a window to process the mail
so that there was a suitable collection later in the day. One respondent
considered that for the universal service to social users a window
between 8am-6pm should be adequate and this would help reduce costs.

Postcomm research suggested that residents and businesses were
generally satisfied with delivery times.

130

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 22 : Do business or social consumers have sufficient choice of services
when sending mail for different purposes?

68.

69.

70.

71.

72.

Overall, respondents considered that large businesses had the greatest
choice of services and that while those for SMEs and social consumers
were less, in terms that they did not have access to the service provided
by new entrants to the market, there was still a range of services to meet
their current needs. All users of Royal Mail services had benefited from
improved quality of service.

For large businesses, the fact that Royal Mail had lost 40% of upstream
volumes to competitors was thought to be a clear indicator that there
was a choice of supplier to meet their needs. SMEs sending more than
250 items a day also had a choice of supplier but those below this level
and social consumers had no choice of supplier. However, the overall
view expressed was that, while these groups did not have the use of
alternative supplier (except for express/parcels), there was still a good
range of services available to meet their needs. That said, the current
range of services needed to be better advertised and had to be reliable
and convenient.

Some respondents felt that there was still opportunity to provide a wider
choice of services even for larger customers. These included more
tailored and bespoke services to meet businesses needs. More
opportunity for evening deliveries was also mentioned and also the use
of alternative points to post and collect mail such as supermarkets and
petrol stations. “Greener” offerings would be welcome.

The view was also expressed that the reduction in the number of post
offices had reduced choice by making access to postal services more
difficult, and that pricing in proportion had also made it more difficult to
send items by post.

It was considered that greater innovation and the provision of services
that met business needs were necessary to maintain volumes of services
and to prevent faster migration to other communications media.

Question 23 : Do consumers have sufficient choice as a recipient about where and
when mail is delivered?

73.

74,

The responses to this question were more mixed. It was generally
agreed that there was some choice but more was needed to keep pace
with the changing needs of the consumer and working patterns,
especially with regard to fulfilment and having packets and parcels
delivered when somebody is at home.

Business had a choice of timed delivery but this came at a cost. It was
considered that deliveries by Royal Mail were centred on its operational
efficiency not on the needs of customers. In this regard, Royal Mail was
thought to be introspective and not understanding of the problems that
changes to deliveries had on its customers, especially businesses.

131

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
75.

Consumers broadly continued to want delivery to the door rather than
the boundary of their property because of security concerns, but there
also appeared to be a demand by social consumers for alternative places
to collect their deliveries at alternative sites (e.g. closer to where they
work or close to home). This would help to reduce the number of
undelivered items, the associated costs of handling them and the
inconvenience to the recipient. Senders of fulfilment items wished to
see more evening and weekend deliveries. There was a clear message
that more innovation was needed here to meet consumers changing
needs.

Question 24 : Would consumers accept that greater choice in services may mean a
variable (but specified) delivery time?

76.

77.

78.

There was a no clear consensus on this even among the various groups of
interested parties. For example, the responses from customers and
business recipients were split down the middle. There did not seem to
be any evidence that consumers wanted this particular trade off.

Business customers reiterated that they wanted to have their deliveries
as early in the day as possible and that variable delivery times would be
difficult to accommodate. What was important was for postal carriers to
find out what their customers wanted and to provide that service for
them. The service should be about what is good for the customer not
what is beneficial to the postal operator.

Other views expressed were that social consumers were more interested
in ensuring that their mail arrived at its destination on a specific day
regardless of the time and that while social users might accept a later
delivery time, this did not meet the needs of those working from home.

Question 25 : Would consumers be willing to pay more for a wider range of
services, whether as a sender or recipient of mail?

79.

80.

81.

The overall view was that consumers considered that prices for existing
services were affordable, but they would be willing to pay more for
enhanced services (i.e. not just a wider range of similar services). The
view was expressed that this was already the situation especially with
regard to guaranteed delivery services. Royal Mail’s experience when
launching new value added products suggested this was the case.

Caution was expressed about price elasticity (which was limited) and
because prices for post in the UK are low. Increases would have to be
justified and have clear benefits.

With regard to fulfilment, on-line ordering meant that receiver pays for
delivery and has a choice of options. Prices might be high for certain
options but customers could decide delivery times and convenience.
The notion of the “Receiver pays” could be developed but only if
balanced by enhanced service options.

132

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
82.

It was thought that SMEs were not looking for broader range of services
and would not want price increases unless there were tangible benefits.

Question 26 : What services should be offered as a minimum for senders and
recipients of mail?

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

There were variations on responses to this question but the overall view
was that current universal service requirement as set out in the Postal
Services Act (six day collection and delivery, registered post and
international services) was the minimum, with variations on what should
overlay this e.g. 1st class post, bulk mail, traceability of products, high
reliability, consistent time of delivery.

The majority of respondents considered that there should be no change
to the six day delivery although one respondent considered that this
should be kept under review as the needs of consumers may change in
future years. It was considered that degrading current services at this
time would accelerate market decline. It was thought that the minimum
service should include special services for vulnerable and under-served
groups.

On the timing of deliveries, there was a preference by consumers that all
post should be delivered before midday.

Few respondents referred specifically to the uniform tariff. Those who
did either supported it because it was important to have pricing certainty
for their business cases, or queried whether it was necessary (while
recognising that administratively it was probably the most practical
charging method).

It was also suggested that the key issue was to determine what service
was really needed by business and social consumers in both sending and
receiving capacities.

Question 27 : Which of these services do you believe would not be delivered by the
market, on the basis that they are not economically viable?

88.

89.

There was a consensus that only Royal Mail could meet the minimum
requirements in the Postal Services Act. It was considered economically
feasible, however, for alternative carriers to replicate services on a
regional basis.

It was also agreed that the market would be more likely to provide
services in high density areas and less inclined to do so in rural areas, or
to provide services at no charge to special groups such as the blind and
partially sighted.

133

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Questions about universal service

Question 28 : The universal service was originally established to ensure that all UK
citizens have access to postal services at a uniform tariff. Do you consider that the
universal service as currently defined fully meets that aim?

90.

a1.

The majority of respondents agreed that the universal service, as
currently defined, continued to meet this aim. One respondent thought,
however, that the universal service was not introduced to give access to
uniformly priced services. This was simply the most administratively
practical method of charging.

Concern was expressed that zonal pricing and cherry-picking were
threats to the universal services.

Question 29 : Do you believe that the universal service has other objectives, not
covered in the Postal Act?

92.

93.

94,

There was broad agreement that the universal service was important for
social cohesion and the economic well being of the UK, and that it played
an important role in the provision of services to vulnerable citizens and
communities.

The role of Royal Mail’s postmen and women as trusted members of the
community was also seen as a benefit from the provision of the universal
service and it was suggested that there was untapped value in their
relationship with the community.

It was also considered that the universal service had the effect of
sustaining the competitiveness of mail as a medium, and of supporting
the wider industry via wholesale access to Royal Mail’s economies of
scale and delivery network.

Question 30 : Are there elements of the universal service as currently defined
which are no longer relevant to consumers?

95.

There was general agreement that all elements of the universal service
remained relevant. The key issue of whether the current universal
service was over specified was raised by several respondents. For
example, it was debatable whether bulk mail services should be included
in the universal service. The view was also expressed that 1st class mail
need not be included in the universal service on the basis that it should
seen as a premium product not a basic service. Many business
customers had switched to 2nd class already to meet their needs.

134

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 31 : Do you believe that bulk mail services for business (either directed at
other businesses or consumers) should be part of a universal service, and why?

96.

97.

98.

The majority of respondents considered that bulk mail (Mailsort 1400
and Cleanmail) should be removed from the universal service.

For those respondents who opposed any change, the main reason given
was the potential impact on the small and medium-sized businesses who
use these services. Others thought that the market for these products
was still immature and that until a fully competitive market existed and
these services were available to all users it was important to keep them
in the universal service. A number of business users or their
representatives thought that bulk mail should stay in the universal
service until end to end competition had developed. If taken out, one
respondent said that there was still a case for the services to be covered
by price control. Concern was also expressed that removal would have
an adverse impact on businesses in rural areas as the uniform tariff
would be lost for these services. Another respondent thought that Royal
Mail’s push for zonal pricing was a clear indication that Royal Mail was
showing monopolistic behaviour.

The general view expressed, however, was that only stamped (and
metered) mail should be part of the universal service. It was considered
that business users had access to competitive services for bulk mail
services from other postal operators and from other media.

Question 32 : What is the (variable, fixed or sunk) cost to Royal Mail of the
Universal Service Obligation, as it is currently defined?

99,

100.

Most respondents did not have access to detailed information about
Royal Mail’s costs to enable them to properly respond to this question.
Royal Mail indicated that cost of providing the universal service was
£3.4bn in 2007-8, with approx 44% of this total relating to fixed costs.

Other comments that were made included:
» the key question for panel was the need for full cost transparency to
ensure that the universal service was correctly financed and that

market development was not hindered.

> while labour costs were normally variable, the universal service
obligation meant that they were fixed for delivery and collections.

> Royal Mail reported that the universal service was loss-making.
Much depended, however, on the way in which the universal service

was defined.

> An “everywhere, everyday” service was a commercial asset and
should be able to generate positive financial contribution

> In anetwork business, it was difficult to unpack costs.

135

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 33 : What are the externalities (for example, environmental and social)
associated with postal services?

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

106.

Concern about the environmental impact of postal services (both the
generation of emissions and recycling of materials sent by post) was the
main externality identified by all respondents. Environmental issues had
an increasingly high profile and could impact on the future use of postal
services and the development of the market as consumers sought to
reduce their personal or businesses’ carbon footprints.

Statistics provided in submissions included:

» sending one item of mail generated on average 26g of CO, whereas
powering a PC for one hour generated 108g of CO, .

>» Direct mail accounted for 2% of landfill compared to 9% for
newspapers.

‘As most trunking and local delivery took place overnight or early morning
road congestion was limited.

One respondent suggested that if there was a “free for all” in setting up
delivery services, this would lead to duplication of effort and increase in
carbon emissions.

The social role of mail service, e.g. to the vulnerable, was also identified
as an externality that could impact on the postal service.

The “credit crunch” and general economic conditions could have an
impact as businesses reduce their advertising budgets.

Question 34 : What are the public goods associated with the provision of postal
services?

107.

There was agreement amongst respondents that postal services
contributed to the smooth running of the UK economy and social
cohesion by allowing individuals, including the vulnerable, to
communicate. It was considered that this was mainly due to the
provision of the universal service. The view was expressed that universal
service “cements the nation together”.

136

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 35 : What other options are available for meeting consumer needs; and

what wo.

108.

109.

wuld be their cost?

The majority of respondents referred to digital communications, in
particular the internet and email. It was not thought that this would be
able to replace all mail, as physical goods had to be delivered to the
recipient. One respondent calculated that approximately £1bn of mail
might be replaced by digital communications. Compared to digital
communications the average monthly spend on post (£2.20) was dwarfed
by that on telecoms/internet services (£64.70).

Some respondents felt that digital communications did not have the
same social cohesion aspects as post and were less ubiquitous.

Questions about providing universal services

Question 36 : Considering both the current and any proposed new definitions of
the universal service, do you consider that the obligation to provide the universal
service is a commercial benefit or disadvantage for Royal Mail? Why?

110.

111.

112.

113.

A significant majority of respondents said that the universal service was a

commercial advantage to Royal Mail. It was considered to be a
“significant benefit’, “unique selling opportunity’, “an advantage if
exploited” and a “tremendous asset’. One respondent said that all

items carried by network should be regarded as contributing a full and
fair share to the universal service network. Another said that the status
of the incumbent universal service provider gave them an air of
dependability and security others did not have.

All of the alternative carriers saw the universal service as an advantage.
Royal Mail themselves considered it to be a valued asset, although it was
also costly to deliver.

Those who thought it was a disadvantage believed so because of the
costs associated with providing the service. If not regulated effectively it
was a liability. It was thought that if the service needed subsidy from
Government then it would be a disadvantage.

Some respondents said that the universal service was neither an
advantage nor disadvantage. It was described as a “curate’s egg” by
one.

Questions 37 : Could the obligation be shared among Royal Mail and alternative

carriers?

114.

The majority view was that the universal service could, at least in theory,
be shared among Royal Mail and alternative carriers. All of the
alternative carriers who responded agree with this. However, some did

137

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
116.

consider that this would be sub-optimal due to duplication and potential
consumer confusion, TUPE and VAT arrangements.

The general view was that the way to achieve this would be through
contracting out/outsourcing. For this to be successful, there would need
to be a change to the VAT regime to make it economically viable.
Another way of sharing the obligation would be through franchising.
With any sharing of the obligation, consumers considered that the
system would need to be properly enforced and that commercially
unattractive areas should be protected.

Those who were opposed to the sharing of the universal service thought
that the break-up of an integrated service would complicate the efficient
operation of the business and that a high quality of service would be
difficult to achieve. They also considered that the cost of additional
complexity would offset any savings from the sharing process. One
respondent also thought that the sharing of the universal service would
lead to greater impact on the environment.

Question 38 : What should be Royal Mail’s role in providing the Universal Service?

117.

118.

There were a number of different responses to this question but the
underlying theme was that Royal Mail’s role was to provide an end to
end service (collection and delivery) throughout the whole of the UK.

Several respondents said that Royal Mail was the only postal operator
capable of providing such a service and that it needed to be financially
robust. One alternative supplier considered that Royal Mail should have
a broader role as supply chain manager, advisor, centre of excellence,
training and development resource, compliance officer and provider of
an information network. It was also commented that Royal Mail needed
access to adequate capital for investment in operational improvement
and products and service innovation.

Question 39 : Can the universal service continue to be financed internally (without
a subsidy)?

119.

120.

The majority of respondents considered that Royal Mail could continue
to finance the universal service without an external subsidy. However,
there were strongly held views that to do so Royal Mail had to improve
its efficiency and to provide services that met customer needs. One
respondent said that improving efficiency was the biggest single lever
available to Royal Mail, and had additional benefits in terms of funding
the pension deficit and providing profits for the shareholder. Another
said that lighter regulation was needed for Royal Mail to be able to fund
the universal service without external subsidy.

It was noted that the universal service was provided in other markets,

such as Sweden, the Netherlands and New Zealand, without external
financing.

138

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
121.

122.

123.

Some customers commented on cross subsidies within Royal Mail's
business. It was considered that cost reflective pricing would be ideal
and that subsidies for social consumers from business mail should be
phased out over time. But others considered that the access regime
meant that social consumers were subsidising alternative postal
operators who should help pay for the upkeep of Royal Mail’s network.

One customer said every other “natural monopoly” had struggled with
the cross subsidy question and had never managed to remove it entirely.
Another thought that it was acceptable for Royal Mail to cross subsidise
between universal and non-universal products.

One respondent considered that Royal Mail needed to take more radical
action to address its inefficiencies, and that there was a serious strategic
gap between now and 2012 that needed to be closed to avoid the
accelerating trend of declining profitability.

Question 40 : If not, how should the universal service be financed?

124,

125.

126.

127.

The main funding mechanisms that were identified were direct subsidy
from Government, and a compensation fund that would mean that
alternative carriers would support the universal service by paying directly
into the fund.

There was little support for a compensation fund. One respondent said
that a compensation fund would further distort the market and it was
better to fund the network by ensuring that access charges were set at
the right level to ensure that the alternative carriers contributed fully to
the maintenance of the network. It was also considered that “taxing”
competitors would reduce margins even further and discourage
development of competition.

One respondent said that the universal service could be supported by the
effective commercial development of Royal Mail. The idea of increasing
licence fees for non-universal service providers was also mentioned.

Some respondents suggested that as Government had previously taken
dividends from Royal Mail, if external funding was needed this should
come from Government.

Question 41 : Does Royal Mail have the capacity to provide the universal service in
an effective way?

128.

129.

The overall response from respondents to this question was positive.
However it was also thought that Royal Mail had to be more efficient and
to implement its transformation plan quickly.

There was criticism from consumers about Royal Mail’s performance.
One business consumer was not convinced that the management could
take this forward. There had been some progress but this had been
frustratingly slow. There needed to be a real commercial attitude and
approach to meeting customers’ needs. Another said that Royal Mail

139

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
needed changes to working practices as well as automation in order to
provide the universal service in effective way. The weak industrial
relations in the company and last year’s strike were also mentioned. It
was considered that these had only resulted in business focusing on
alternatives to Royal Mail and post altogether.

130. I Some respondents considered that Royal Mail needed access to
additional funding to invest its infrastructure. Others thought that
contracting out/market testing would ensure that Royal Mail was as
efficient as possible.

Question 42 : If not, what are the changes necessary, in terms of the company’s
mission, management, investment plans, structure or working practices?

131. There were a number of different responses to this question. The
majority of respondents again mentioned the need for Royal Mail to
implement its transformation plan.

132. Others argued:

» the need for Royal Mail to put customers at the centre of its
strategy. The management culture was currently inward looking and
should be more focused on customers.

> that Royal Mail should make more rapid use of the investment
funding provided by Government;

> that Royal Mail and the CWU needed to adopt a flexible and efficient
approach that was responsive to consumers work patterns. The
current protectionist attitude did not generate good working
partnerships with business customers.

> that a split along lines of commercial equivalence was inevitable if
Royal Mail continued to behave as a stereotypical monopoly.

» that incentive schemes should be changed to focus on delivering
customer satisfaction.

Question 43 : Can these changes be delivered within public ownership?

133. There were mixed views about whether the changes could be delivered
in public ownership. Even amongst who considered that this was
possible there were concerns about the speed of change and the need
for it to be accelerated. It was also thought that a change in ownership
could result in more uncertainty and upheaval.

134. Those respondents who thought that an change in ownership was
needed also doubted whether the necessary changes, particularly a
change in Royal Mail’s culture, could be achieved in public ownership.
Others said that ownership should change to enable Royal Mail to gain
access to equity capital. One thought that it might be difficult to find a
purchaser unless Government could give some assurances about

140

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
135.

136.

industrial relations. It was thought that Royal Mail would benefit from
the introduction of commercial disciplines that would support changes in
management and employees’ behaviours needed to revitalise Royal Mail,
removing the existing “safety net”.

Another respondent said that, as long as Royal Mail was state owned,
there would be political pressure on the sole shareholder to provide
increased funding and reduced pressure on Royal Mail to improve
efficiency. A commercial shareholder would be more demanding to
ensure management maximises productivity and profitability and
ensured return on capital invested.

One respondent proposed a public/private partnership using a “Limited
Liability Partnership (LLP)” framework.

Question 44 : If not, why?

137.

In addition to those given in response to the previous question, a number
of points were made by respondents, including:

> future funding and business responsiveness could be more effective
in private sector.

> there was a possible perception of conflict in the private sector
delivering such a traditional service.

» change in ownership would result in a sustained period of disruption
that would irreversibly damage market which has not recovered
from last year’s strikes.

» a period of stability was needed to rebuild the market to ameliorate
effect of e-substitution and to restore consumer confidence.

Question 45(a): What further measures would be necessary to enable the changes
listed in your response to Q42? In particular, should Royal Mail and Post Office Ltd
continue to form part of the same group?

138.

139.

There was a small majority amongst respondents in favour of Royal Mail
and Post Office Ltd remaining part of the same group.

Those who favoured no change considered that there was no compelling
reason to separate them. The points made to support this position
included:

» The view that Post Office Ltd was the retail arm of Royal Mail;

> The view that Post Office Ltd was part of an integrated business
model;

» The view that Post Office Ltd would be financially weakened by a
break up and endanger provision of the universal service, because

141

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
140.

141.

142.

the mail contract between the two is approximately a third of Post
Office revenue);

> The view that there were synergies between the businesses;

> Good quality management was needed rather than ownership
change;

> There is no known international precedent where such a split has
happened.

Those who favoured a split considered that:

» A demerged Post Office could seek to find other services of social
value to boost its revenues;

>» Post Office and Royal Mail were different business and separation
would help efficiency and transparency of costs.

» It would enable each business to focus on its divergent problems;

> The need for public subsidy would mean that Post Office was an
uneasy fit with a commercial approach,

In either case, a number of respondents considered that alternative
postal carriers should have access to the network of post offices as this
would be beneficial to customers and act as an additional revenue
stream for POL.

It was also considered that the contract between the two companies was
important to ensure that there was continued access to postal services
through post offices. For example Post Office could be under direct HMG
control with arm’s length commercial contracts with Royal Mail.

Question 45(b) : Do you support the idea of wholesale equivalence (separating
Royal Mail’s upstream and downstream operations), and why?

143.

144.

A small majority of respondents favoured wholesale equivalence. This
was mainly on the grounds that genuine competition would be driven by
a properly separated access regime as it would help establish a “level
playing field” with Royal Mail just being another customer. Another
proposed that Postcomm needed to systematically identify bottlenecks
and barriers to market entry, and providers wishing to access these
bottlenecks and others should be able to do so on terms of full
equivalence of price and conditions.

Those who were opposed considered that cost transparency was the best
way of ensuring fair competition as it would allow the regulator to test
whether Royal Mail’s prices were fair and non-discriminatory. It was also
thought that the cost of implementation would be high and that it would
lead to potential internal conflicts in Royal Mail with the danger of
dysfunctional practices impacting on consumer. Other respondents

142

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
suggested that wholesale equivalence was impractical and would
increase rather than reduce costs, raise barriers to efficiency and not
provide an adequate catalyst for change. One respondent considered
that any move to equivalence should focus first on services where there
was no upstream competition. Existing services needed to be protected
against margin squeeze along current lines until the system is shown to
be robust.

Question 45 (c) : Do you support the idea of commercial equivalence (separating
Royal Mail’s sales and marketing function from the management of the collection,
sorting, transportation and delivery network) and why?

145.

146.

147.

The clear majority of respondents did not favour commercial
equivalence. The main reasons given were that this would not address
the key issues facing Royal Mail and the sector and there was no
compelling reason to make such a change. It was thought that it would
be costly, damaging and time consuming and add complexity, reduce
efficiency and increase prices. One respondent said that if the absence
of separation was creating genuine barrier to competition then it may be
useful, but it should not be considered if it was merely “economist
dogma”.

It was suggested that commercial equivalence made no sense while Royal
Mail retained the universal service obligation. Adopting a model that
mirrored the one in gas, electricity and telecoms was not sensible
because Royal Mail’s business was different. Another respondent’s view
was that if there was commercial separation Royal Mail was more likely
to invest more in the downstream and therefore there would be no
reason for end to end competition to develop. It would set the
infrastructure in stone and prevent the market developing to meet
emerging requirements.

Those who favoured the change thought that it avoided the pitfalls of
wholesale equivalence as entire network would be under single control.
It would give Royal Mail the opportunity to outsource, and develop a
retail business with the capability to operate with true commercial
customer focussed attitude. Some who supported the move recognised
that it was not perfect but believed that it would be beneficial for the
market.

Question 46 : What is the impact of Royal Mail’s pension liability and deficit on the
company’s ability to trade; and what are the implications for management?

148.

It was recognised that Royal Mail’s pension deficit was one of the largest
of any UK Company and that it had a significant impact on Royal Mail’s
financial position. It was generally agreed that the deficit had
implications for management as time had to be devoted to ensuring that
there was sufficient cash to meet the necessary contributions to the fund
and to ensure that future liabilities were reduced. The deficit was
volatile and subject significant fluctuation making it difficult for Royal
Mail to finance its business operations.

143

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
149,

150.

151.

152.

A number of respondents considered that Royal Mail could not operate
on a level playing field and compete while it had to fund this overhead.
They also felt that the deficit distorted Royal Mail’s financial position.
Under the present price control, there was also a burden on customers to
fund the pension deficit through increased prices.

One respondent thought that the pension deficit only amounted to 3% of
Royal Mail’s costs and that the greater concern was the size of deficit by
comparison of assets and liabilities which made Royal Mail balance sheet
insolvent.

Respondents raised several implications for management, including:

» the need to take account of liability to trustees when embarking on
investment strategies;

» increased difficulties in considering a reduction in size of core
business due to need for cash to service the pension deficit;

» pressure from the Plan trustees to de-risk Royal Mail’s business;

» uncertainty about future cash flows, coupled with balance sheet
insolvency, restricts management's ability to take a long term view

A number of respondents suggested ways in which the deficit should be

tackled. These included:

» consideration should be given to moving pension fund to separate
control and management (private, commercial) and allow business
to be self-funding afterwards;

> increasing revenue from services (prices) and decreasing costs;

» shareholder funding on commercial terms but taking account of the
13 year pension holiday;

> pension reform to minimise the deficit;

> using assets/real estate (£2bn) to reduce deficit as M&S has done on
sale and lease back;

» move the scheme’s investments away from stock market
investments to decrease fluctuations;

» direct Government intervention to ensure the scheme is properly
funded.

144

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Questions about the regulatory framework

Question 47 : Is the “final mile” (the ability to deliver to all 28 million addresses in
the UK) a natural monopoly?

153.

154.

155.

The majority of respondents considered the final mile to be a “natural
monopoly” especially to rural and remote areas. The main reason for
this was the huge investment that would be needed to replicate Royal
Mail’s national network. A number of respondents believed that it would
not make sense to have two or more postmen or women delivering to
your door, in particular from an environmental perspective.

It was thought that it would be feasible to develop alternative delivery
networks in high density areas, on a regional basis or through a network
that only delivered 2 days per week. One respondent considered that
when looked at from first principles, it was not a natural monopoly but
accepted that Royal Mail’s legacy infrastructure is an “historic, de facto
natural monopoly”.

Another respondent pointed out that there was competition in delivery
in other markets including the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Italy and
Spain, and some alternative carriers had plans to provide end to end
services in the UK. The conditions had to be right to do this. For
example there needed to be equal VAT treatment. It was considered
that simplicity of using universal service at uniform tariff, the widespread
infrastructure (post boxes, delivery houses, POL) and the obligation to
deliver six days a week meant Royal Mail had a monopoly in this area.

Question 48 : Is the “first mile” (the ability to collect from all postboxes and post
offices in the UK) a natural monopoly?

156.

157.

158.

The generally held view was that the collection from the nationwide
network of post boxes was a natural monopoly but other networks could
be developed more easily than that for delivery. For example, collections
were already being made from business consumers by alternative
carriers, and there was the possibility of collecting from petrol stations or
supermarkets. It was thought that multi-operator collection may serve
the market more efficiently than a single operator.

It was pointed out that the mail conveyed through the network of post
boxes only accounted for around 13% of mail posted in the UK.

One respondent pointed out that in Germany, PIN had launched its own
stamps and a network of green post boxes in competition with Deutsche
Post. In was also pointed out that an alternative collection network such
as this had failed in New Zealand. Another respondent thought that
alternative carriers should have access to the post office network and
that mentioned that Royal Mail had exclusive rights to erect post boxes.

145

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 49 : To what extent has the access regime enhanced the possibility of
competition in the final mile, or reduced it?

159.

160.

161.

162.

163.

The majority of responses suggested that the access regime had
enhanced the possibility of future competition in the final mile. The main
reason for this was that the access regime had enabled the alternative
carriers to build up volumes and form direct relationships with
customers, laying the foundation for alternative delivery networks. It
was suggested that access had allowed customers to experience choice,
new services, excellent customer service, greater accountability and price
competition, enabled operators to establish direct customer
relationships collection networks, sales forces, and to invest in premises,
vehicles, sorting machinery and IT infrastructure.

It was thought that it was questionable whether end to end services
would exist in the absence of access, and certainly not on a national
scale.

It was suggested that some aspects of the current regime could act as a
barrier to an end to end service. For example, margins were so small that
there was little incentive to compete, and crucially the National
Geographic Posting Profile in Royal Mail access agreements meant that
alternative carriers could not chose to deliver in high density areas whilst
using the access arrangements for other deliveries without being
surcharged.

Some respondents said that it was very important for Postcomm to
understand the segments in the postal market so that it could better
understand where Royal Mail could use market power to anti-
competitive effect. It was also considered that the level of price flexibility
(3-8.5%) in the price control was a barrier to entry. Others said that it
had made no difference, and that access had reduced competition in
delivery.

It was thought that the VAT regime was a significant barrier to the
introduction of end to end services.

Question 50 : Do you believe that the regulator should set limits on prices for social
mail, or other forms of mail, and why?

164.

165.

The overwhelming majority of respondents agreed with this suggestion.
The main reasons were that social consumers continued to need
protection, and to ensure that the universal service remains affordable.
It was pointed out that the European Directive set requirements for
tariffs for universal services, so as long as there were universal services
there was likely to be a need for price control.

For business customers, it was considered that franked mail should
continue to be price controlled as it was difficult for alternative carriers
to get into this market. It was thought that price control maintained the
pressure on Royal Mail to become more efficient in all services.

146

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
166.

167.

168.

169.

It was considered that price control was needed in a mail market still in
its infancy with a dominant incumbent.

Respondents from the magazine industry continued to support price
control because they considered that there is no choice for them in the
market, and that Royal Mail’s strategy of continually higher prices
threatened the industry and would reduce volumes, leading to a spiral of
decline. The magazine industry wanted a period of stable prices to
enable business planning.

It was considered important that the regulator tested price elasticities in
the market so that it had a clear understanding of what the market could
bear. One respondent said that the universal should remain affordable
but the overall aim should be to remove cross subsidies. It was also
thought that the current RPI-X price control was failing because Royal
Mail was not improving its efficiency. One respondent warned that if
zonal pricing was allowed for business services it would only be a matter
of time before it is applied to social mail.

Among those who believed that price control was not necessary, it was
suggested that provided that social mail was priced affordably and
covered fully allocated costs, there should be no need to regulate social
mail prices. This then would set the ceiling for the whole market and
market forces will set lower caps. To ensure financial health of Royal
Mail and to promote effective and efficient competition, all services
should be subject of a price floor which was no less than the fully
allocated costs for the service plus a reasonable margin. It was also
considered that price control was not necessary for business mail as it
was already a competitive market.

Question 51 : Which is the more appropriate system of regulation under the
current market conditions: ex ante or ex post regulation, or a combination of
both? Please explain.

170.

171.

172.

The majority of respondents thought that a combination of both ex ante
and ex post regulation was needed.

Ex ante regulation would be required for the universal service to protect
social consumers as this was the area of the market where there was
little competition. Other advantages of ex ante were that it provided
stability for the market, enabling alternative carriers to enter, and that it
enabled the regulator to address economic bottlenecks in the Royal Mail
network, to allow reasonable access to them, thereby enabling reduction
in regulation elsewhere. One respondent believed that ex ante
benefited the dominant supplier by setting clear parameters for its
behaviour and reducing regulatory uncertainty.

With regard to arrangements for the parts of the market where
competition was better developed, it was suggested that this could move
to ex post regulation as competition developed. For example it was
suggested that the introduction of wholesale or commercial equivalence
would give the opportunity for a lighter touch regime based on ex post.

147

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
173.

174.

175.

It was noted that to move to ex post it would be necessary for the
regulator to have concurrent competition powers (which Postcomm did
not have at present), and that a disadvantage of ex post was that it was
applied after potential damage had been done to the market. Other
respondents suggested that provided that the regulator was quick,
decisive, consistent, efficient and robust in tackling anti-competitive
behaviour then it did not matter whether ex post or ante.

One respondent considered that the UK postal market was a series of
separate or markets that should be defined properly. The regulator
should then establish where Royal Mail has significant market power and
establish which aspects of Royal Mail’s infrastructure represents genuine
bottlenecks to competition and whether there are enduring. Bottlenecks
should be regarded as national assets to be utilised in the wider public
interest. The regulator should insist on fullest and most comprehensive
transparency of costs, and understand inter-relation between costs,
shared costs and allocation of overheads. The Regulator should ensure
that national assets/bottlenecks were not monopolised by Royal Mail.

It was also noted that the UK was the only market in the world that had
introduced an access headroom regime.

Question 52: What criteria should be used to determine when regulation can be
withdrawn, as competition develops?

176.

There were a number of responses to this question. There was
agreement that regulation should only be withdrawn when there was a
genuine competitive market that would maintain the affordability of the
universal service and protect the interests of consumers. Other
suggestions as to when regulation could be withdrawn included:

» to protect the public interest;
> when link between price and cost was clearly identified;

> when effective market mechanisms were evident and regarded as
sustainable;

» on the basis of clear criteria such as patterns of entry, barriers to
entry, achievement of scale, ability of consumers to switch between
providers, extent to which price leadership was with one supplier;

» that regulation could be removed for urban areas where there was
end to end competition, but not rural areas;

» to decide whether to withdraw regulation, Postcomm needed to
have a clear understanding of the market with a detailed analysis so
that it could understand where Royal Mail had dominant power and
where competition was sufficiently developed;

» Postcomm should invest in scenario planning to have a better
understanding of the outcomes in the postal market.

148

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
177.

One respondent said that they did not see competition developing in a
number of areas (e.g. the final mile for deliveries), which would therefore
need some degree of regulation for the foreseeable future. Another said
that there was a conflict of interest in Government between its
shareholder role (maximise revenues and minimise cost) and as guardian
of public service/legislator, and that the Government should publish its
vision for the sector.

Question 53 : Should the price of different postal services reflect their costs? Or
are cross-subsidies a natural and inevitable part of running a network business?

178.

179.

180.

181.

182.

183.

The majority view amongst respondents was that the price for postal
services should be cost reflective. Although it was thought that it was
difficult to establish exact costs for postal services, the aim should be to
have cost transparency and cost reflective pricing. The cost information
should be subject to annual audit. Royal Mail should be able to recover
its costs and to make a reasonable profit.

A number of respondents made the point that cost reflective pricing
should not mean that social consumers were disadvantaged though
excessive price increases. Any future changes should have consumers at
the forefront. Business consumers needed predictability and stability of
price changes for business planning. It was also thought that Royal Mail
should have the flexibility to strike long term deals with business
customers.

On cross-subsidies, there was a general view that this was inevitable in a
network business, in particular to meet social obligations. For example,
the same equipment was used for social and business mail, and delivery
was handled by the same postman or woman. One respondent
considered that cross subsidies had been built into prices since Royal
Mail’s inception, and removal needed to be managed to ensure unfair
advantage was not gained because of speed of removal.

The view was expressed that cost reflective pricing would create a
decline in mail to remote areas as cross-subsidies support the uniform
tariff concept. Business mail which benefited financially from
communicating with these customers should pay true cost of delivering
to remote locations. It was also felt that the current regime had led to
SMEs and social consumers subsidising large companies.

One respondent believed that liberalisation undermined the system of
cross subsidisation which supported the universal service. There had to
be an agreed method of measuring costs. The options included Entry
Pricing or Net Avoided costs.

It was pointed out that the European Directive required prices for the
universal service to be geared to costs. Member States were required to
monitor cross-subsidies and maintain the obligation on universal service
providers to keep separate and transparent accounts.

149

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 54 : In current market conditions, what sort of regulatory framework
would be most effective in stimulating innovation in the postal services sector to
meet consumer needs?

184,

185.

There were very mixed responses to this question with no set of
conditions gaining a significant consensus or agreement amongst
respondents.

A number of suggestions were made, including :

>

lighter touch ex post regulation in market conditions of falling
volumes and customer down trading, thereby promoting efficient
competition to stimulate innovation and meet customer needs.

that because competition did not inevitably lead to innovation,
incentives must be set in regulatory framework with innovation as a
policy goal.

current access regime was not the best launch pad as there was little
scope for innovation.

key barriers should be addressed, such as VAT.
regulation needed to be proportional to Royal Mail’s dominance.

the regulatory framework needed to set controls to monitor the link
between cost and pricing.

there should be a regulatory framework that allowed innovation to
be rewarded, allowing rewards to be kept by the innovator over
regulatory review cycles in whole or at least part. Failure to do so
would mean innovation was constrained.

the regulatory regime should allow the opportunity for both Royal
Mail and its competitors to make sufficient margin to encourage
them to invest in new equipment and processes and - more
importantly — to experiment and take risks.

a stable regulatory environment was required so that everybody
could make sound business decisions.

that current conditions were adequate. Royal Mail’s ability to
innovate was only constrained by needing to publish 3 months
before launch. Provided this was done nothing prevented them
from innovating.

150

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 55 : To what extent is an efficient Royal Mail important for the
development of the postal sector more generally?

186.

187.

188.

There was overwhelming agreement amongst respondents that an
efficient Royal Mail was essential to the development of the postal
market in the UK. It was thought to be key to ensuring that mail
competes effectively with other media. Other views were that it was
“absolutely critical’, “fundamental”, “crucial” and “the market can only
thrive with a vibrant and efficient Royal Mail at its heart”.

The point was strongly made that as the dominant player for the
foreseeable future, Royal Mail should be leading the market on
efficiency, innovation and customer service. A decline in Royal Mail
would have an impact on not only the universal service but the market as
a whole.

One respondent noted that without Royal Mail’s network, there would
be no competition at all.

Question 56 : Is it feasible that the postal sector should continue to be regulated
separately from the wider communications market?

189,

190.

191.

The general view expressed by most respondents was that postal services
should continue to be subject to sector specific regulation in the short
term. This was mainly due to the view that the market was still in its
infancy and competition was not fully developed. But there was
recognition that, in time, regulation in the wider market was sensible and
feasible.

On the other hand, those who supported integration of regulation of the
wider market suggested that the postal sector was an integral part of
communications sector and fulfilment market, and its separate
regulation was no longer appropriate as customers increasingly explored
and demanded multimedia services. Isolated regulation of one medium
such as postal services therefore ran a real danger that regulation would
not reflect the full nature of competition and relevant market factors. It
was also considered that Postcomm lacked a number of fundamental
tools needed for the regulation of the sector, such as a complete
understanding of the markets.

Other respondents recognised Postcomm’s record as on balance being
positive for the postal sector. However, it was thought that it might not
be optimum, and OFCOM might offer a better regime given dynamics of
wider market but Postcomm’s knowledge should not be lost.

151

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Question 57 : What sort of regulatory framework would be the most effective in
stimulating innovation in the postal services sector, under current market
conditions?

192.

Most respondents referred back to their response to question 54. Other
points raised here were that there was considerable scope for simplifying
the current regulatory framework and to make it more effective. It was
also thought you could not regulate to encourage entrepreneurial
development.

Question 58 : Does the current VAT regime create distortions in the postal market?
What are they?

193.

194.

195.

196.

Almost all respondents considered that the VAT regime distorted the
market and should be changed. Many considered that the regime
seriously hindered the development of end to end competition. It
prevented alternative carriers providing services to approx 40-50% of the
market who were VAT exempt (for example financial services and
insurance) and who therefore used Royal Mail. It was also thought that
consistency of application caused confusion in the market.

Some respondents suggested that there should be a low common VAT of
around 5%. It was thought that the VAT exemption for Parcelforce could
not be justified as it was active in a fully competitive market.

Those who opposed change said that the VAT exemption compensated
to some extent for the fact that universal service provider carried a
burden which competitors do not. The impact of removal of VAT would
depend on how much would be passed on to end customer in form of
higher prices. Apart from financial services companies, customers most
likely to lose out from the imposition of VAT would be those who cannot
claim it back i.e. social consumers, charities and non-vat registered small
businesses. It was also thought that VAT on Royal Mail services would
accelerate the drop in Royal Mail volumes (and overall volumes) and
profits and endanger the universal service.

One respondent proposed that the VAT exemption should remain for the
universal postal service only.

Other issues

Question 59 : In what order should any policy changes you believe necessary be
implemented?

197.

There were a number of responses to this question with no real
agreement. The suggestions were as follows:

» rapid change was needed but it should be systematic and ordered.

152

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
> cost transparency would lay foundation for ex post regulation.

> changes then to the Postal Services Act would allow access to equity
capital and update regulatory framework.

» no particular order but consumers must be protected in the interim.
» delivery performance, pricing, service enhancement.

> regulation should be reduced after the introduction of wholesale
equivalence and changes to the VAT regime.

> immediate — stability, change VAT, separate POL; short term —
remove 1st class from the universal service, change frequency of the
universal service to five days (and in the medium term, three days
offering the provision of universal service to regional franchises.

» Postcomm should make a determination on urban access pricing to
enable would be competitors to assess the viability of entry into the
end to end market (2008-9); establish a robust cost allocation
system so that costs for each service can be established (2009-10)
enabling removal of many existing price caps; ECJ VAT ruling (2009);
stabilise fluctuations in pension fund ands plan to fund deficit and
utilise assets to reduce the deficit as far as possible (2008-9);
consider private shareholding in Royal Mai- 2009-10; ensure that
there is a flight path to more efficiency and modernisation (agreed
with Royal Mail, shareholder and unions) 2008-9.

> priority should be given to areas that help stabilise the universal
service to at least break-even position.

» first step should be to safeguard the universal service and return it to
profit is to review Royal Mail price-controlled products in universal
service basket.

Question 60 : Are there any other issues which you believe should be considered by
this review which are not covered by the questions set out above?

198. Only a small number of respondents answered this question directly.

199. One business consumer pointed out that changes to Royal Mail’s
operational specifications and behaviours have had a detrimental impact
‘on large organisations and smaller ones. For example, changes of
Cleanmail specifications resulted in stock write offs; IT changes on major
users — need notice period, use of trays instead of bags — caused huge
operational issues for users. Royal Mail should be more aware of the
impact on its customers.

200. Another said that Royal Mail needed a change in culture and to be
genuinely customer focussed. The industry could not afford any more
strikes; these had an adverse impact on business and postal volumes, and
more strikes would have worse cumulative effect.

153

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
201.

202.

203.

It was also considered that fines for poor Royal Mail performance should
not go back to Government but be earmarked for improvements to
quality of service.

An alternative carrier thought that it was difficult to see how Royal Mail
could confidently say that it is 40% less efficient. than competitors and
pay 25% more.

Another carrier was strongly opposed to a minimum wage in the postal
sector and said that the emphasis should be on making Royal Mail more
competitive. Any changes to the universal service should not have
adverse effect on express sector which is already highly competitive, and
should remain outside the licensing regime.

154

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Annex D:
End-to-end competition

1. It would have been surprising to have seen the rapid expansion of “end-
to-end” competition so soon after the market’s full liberalisation.
Whether end-to-end competition will emerge in future, and the speed at
which it emerges, is the subject of considerable debate. Written
submissions to the panel provided mixed views.

2. Some argue that a 20% share of the upstream market ought to give
alternative carriers sufficient volume to generate the economies of scale
needed to make delivery services profitable. Companies developing new
delivery services would most likely begin in urban areas with a high
population density and relatively large number of mail items for each
address, perhaps on the basis of two or three deliveries per week.

» TNT Post is conducting a limited end-to-end trial in Liverpool.

» Royal Mail forecasts that, in 2009-10, there will be 446 million items
of mail handled end-to-end by alternative carriers (2% of the market),
rising to 4.4 billion items (21%) by 2016-17.

> Postcomm’s estimate is more modest: 200 million items by 2009-10,
compared with 35 million in 2006-7".

3. Those who remain sceptical about the prospect of end-to-end
competition point to various barriers which prevent companies from
entering the market.

» The cost of establishing a national delivery network is high. The “final
mile” is a labour intensive business and represents 44% of Royal
Mail’s costs”.

» Royal Mail’s economies of scale and scope give the company a
significant advantage over competitors for delivery, where high costs
are spread over a large volume (around 80 million items per day).

> European VAT legislation provides a mandatory exemption for public
postal services (including Royal Mail) and for stamps. This is a
distortion in the market. Alternative carriers are certainly at a
disadvantage in securing business with that part of the postal market
which is unable to reclaim all of the VAT charged to it. This includes
financial institutions and charities: some of the most extensive users
of the postal service.

» There is uncertainty about the future of the market, making it
difficult for companies to assess the likely return on their investment.
Falling volumes, developments in new technology and regulation of

°° Page 74 of Postcomm’s subr to the panel, 2007 forecast
** Source: Royal Mail. This figure includes the costs of sorting the mail into its final order, delivery, and
relevant pensions costs. It excludes overheads and inter-business costs,

155
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

the postal sector at the end of the current price control, including
zonal pricing, are all difficult to predict.

Some carriers believe that any investment in a delivery network

would be threatened by Royal Mail's ability to impede competition in
the future.

156
Annex E:

Bibliography

Published submissions to the review panel

Written submissions from the following organisations have been published with

the authors’ permission at

www.berr.gov.uk/whatwedo/sectors/postalservices/Review/ Responses/.

Communications Workers Union
Direct Marketing Association
Federation of Small Businesses
IMRG

Institute of Directors

Mail Competition Forum

Mail Order Traders’ Association
Mail Users’ Association

National Federation of SubPostmasters
Nordic Enterprise Trust
PeoplePost Ltd

Periodical Publishers Association
Postcomm

Postwatch

Royal Mail

TNT Post UK Ltd

UK Mail

Unite

Published accounts

Royal Mail Holdings Annual Report and Accounts, various years
Royal Mail Group Regulatory Financial Statements, various years
Report and Accounts of the Royal Mail Pension Plan, 2007-2008

United States Postal Service Annual Report, 2007
Deutsche Post World Net Annual Report, 2007

TNT Annual Report, 2007

Posten (Swedish Post) Annual Report, 2007

Itella (Finland Post) Annual Report, 2007
Osterreichische Post (Austrian Post) Annual Report, 2007
Swiss Post Annual Report, 2007

Post Danmark Annual Report, 2007

La Poste Annual Report, 2007

Correos Annual Report, 2007

Poste Italiane Annual Report, 2007

Posten Norge Annual Report, 2007

De Post-La Poste (Belgian Post) Annual Report, 2007

157

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
Reviews and studies of the postal service

Opening the Post: Postcomm and postal services — the risks and opportunities,
National Audit Office, January 2002.

Re-opening the Post: Postcomm and the quality of mail services, National Audit
Office, March 2006

A comparison of the burden of the universal service in Italy and the United States,
Cohen et al published in Postal and Delivery Services: Delivering on Competition,
edited by Crew and Kleindorfer, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2002.

An empirical analysis of the Graveyard Spiral, Cohen et al , September 2003,
published in Competitive Transformation of the Postal and Delivery Sector, edited
by Crew and Kleindorfer, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 2003.

Scope of the Price Control, prepared for Postcomm by Frontier Economics,
October 2004

Economics of postal services: a report to the European Commission, NERA, July
2004

The Universal Postal Service in the communications era. Adapting to Changing
Markets and Customer Behavior, Professor Dr. Matthias Finger, Ismail Alyanak
and Dr Pierre Rossel, Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL), June 2005
Light is Right, Conditions for Competition and Regulation in the Postal Market, Dr.
Paul De Bijl, Professor Dr. Eric Van Damme and Professor Dr. Pierre Larouche,

June 2005, Tilburg Law and Economics Centre.

The needs of postal users- Customer Survey 2006, Roland Berger for Postcomm,
Postwatch and Royal Mail, 2006

The impact on universal service of the full market accomplishment of the postal
internal market in 2009, PricewaterhouseCoopers, May 2006

The needs of users of the Postal Service - Customer Survey 2007 report, Postcomm,
2007

Protecting Consumers? Removing retail price controls, National Audit Office,
March 2008

The costs and benefits of modifying the scope of the universal service, Prepared for
Postcomm by Frontier Economics, May 2008

Competitive Market Review, Postcomm, September 2008

Understanding social customers’ mail habits and behaviours, Research study
prepared for Postwatch by IPSOS MORI, September 2008

SMEs’ current and future postal needs, prepared for Postwatch RS Consulting, May
2008

Postal Universal Service Obligation: Value to the Citizen, Prepared for Postwatch
by Accent, May 2008

158

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Costing & financing of universal service obligations in the postal sector in the
European Union, NERA, October 1998

An assessment of the costs and benefits of Consignia’s current Universal Service
Provision: a discussion document, Postcomm, June 2001

Estimates of the cost of the universal service obligation using the entry-pricing
approach, Liddiard, Robinson and Rodriguez, The Post Office, April 1999

Funding universal service obligations in the postal sector, Oxera, January 2007

Post Office Reform: A World Class Service for the 21* Century, HM Government,
CM 4340, July 1999

Main Developments in the Postal Sector (2004-2006), WIK Consulting, May 2006

Main Developments in the Postal Sector (2006-2008), ECORYS Nederland BV,
September 2008

Delivering Quality : The Post Office in the public sector, Communications Workers
Union, 2004

Postal Services in Europe 2006, Eurostat, 2008

Royal Mail after Liberalisation, House of Commons Trade and Industry
Committee, Second Report of Session 2005-06

Business Customer Survey, UK Postal Market, Postcomm, 2007
Business Customer Survey, Postcomm, September 2008

Measuring the scale and scope economies with a structural model of Postal
delivery, Bradley, Colvin and Perkins published in Liberalisation of the Postal and

Delivery sector edited by Crew and Kleindorfer, 2006

The evolution of the postal sector: implications for stakeholders (2006-2012),
Universal Postal Union, March 2007

Social costs and benefits of the universal service obligation in the postal market,
Cremer et al published in Competition and Regulation in the Postal and Delivery
Sector, edited by Crew and Kleindorfer, 2008.

The benefits of competition in the UK Mail market, Europe Economics, March 2008

Future Efficient Costs of Royal Mail’s Regulated Mail Activities, LECG, August 2005

Small Businesses and the UK Postal Market postal survey: First Past the Post,
Federation of Small Businesses, January 2007

Employment trends in the postal sector, PLS RAMBULL Management A/S, October
2002

Violence and stress at work in the postal sector, ILO Working Paper, June 2003
Independent review of industrial relations between Royal Mail and the

Communications Workers Union, Lord Sawyer, lan Burkett, Nicholas Underhill QC,
2001

159
A Review of Royal Mail's Special Privileges : A Consultation Document, Postcomm,
January 2004

General studies with relevance to the postal sector

Regulating Publicly Owned Utilities - Outputs, Owners, and Incentives, Sir lan
Byatt, Lecture given to CRI on 18" April 2007

Occupational pension provision in the public sector, Pensions Policy Institute,
March 2005

Community guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty,
European Commission, 2004

Accounting for Pensions 2008, Lane Clark and Peacock, July 2008

The Purple Book : DB pensions universe risk profile 2007, Pension Protection Fund
and The Pensions Regulator, 2008

Financial Assistance Scheme (FAS) Review of Assets, Andrew Young for DWP,
December 2007

Regulatory Reform: Economic Analysis and British Experience, Mark Armstrong,
Simon Cowan and John Vickers, 1994

Privatization, Restructuring and Regulation in Network U:
February 2002

ies, David Newberry,

Regulating Infrastructure, Jose Gomez-lbanez, 2003.
Understanding regulation: theory, strategy and practice, Baldwin and Cave, 1999
An introduction to competition law, Slot and Johnston, April 2006

The economics of regulation: principles and institutions, Alfred Kahn, Fifth edition
1993

Economic reports, data and projections

Productivity in the UK 7: Securing long-term prosperity, HM Treasury & BERR,
November 2007.

The Communications Market 2008, Ofcom, August 2008

Occupational pension schemes survey - first release, Office for National Statistics,
July 2008

Family Spending 2007, Office for National Statistics
Labour Disputes in 2007, Office for National Statistics

Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings 2007, Office for National Statistics

160

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
161

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

Annex F:
Terms of reference

The Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, John
Hutton, announced this review of the postal services sector on 19 December 2007
with the following terms of reference:

> To assess the impacts to date of liberalisation of the UK postal
services market, including on the Royal Mail, alternative carriers and

consumers.

» To explore trends in future market development and the likely
impact of these on Royal Mail, alternative carriers and consumers.

» To consider how to maintain the Universal Service Obligation in the

light of trends and market developments identified.

The review is independent of Government.

162
Annex G:

Members of the panel

Richard Hooper
CBE (Chair)

Richard Hooper is currently Chairman of VocaLink
Holdings Ltd, and a non-executive Director at YELL
Group ple. He stood down as Chairman of Informa plc
in May 2007. He was Deputy Chairman of Ofcom
between 2002 and 2005 and Chairman of the Radio
Authority for three years until 2003. He is a lead
mentor for Bird & Co Boardroom and Executive
Mentoring.

Previous directorships include MAI plc, United News &
Media, Superscape plc and IMS Group plc. He was also
Director, Prestel, at Post Office Telecommunications
(1980-81) and Chief Executive Value Added Systems and
Services, BT (1982-86).

Dame Deirdre Hutton was appointed Chair of the Food Dame Deirdre
Standards Agency in 2005 and is a non-executive
director on the Board of HM Treasury. She has served Hutton

on a number of public bodies and has considerable
experience of corporate governance, risk-based
regulation and consumer policy. She was a Board
member, including Deputy Chair, of the Financial
Services Authority between 1997 and 2007. For five
years, she was Chair of the National Consumer
Council, having formerly chaired the Scottish
Consumer Council. Prior to her appointment at the
Food Standards Agency, she had been a member of
the Better Regulation Task Force since 1999.

lan R Smith

I
oO

lan Smith has recently been appointed as CEO, Reed-
Elsevier. Previously he was Chief Executive of Taylor
Woodrow prior to its merger with George Wimpey. He
was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the General
Healthcare Group in September 2004, was previously
CEO, Europe for Excel, Group Commercial Director of
Ocean Group and prior to that, Managing Director of
Monitor Company Europe, a strategy consulting firm.
lan began his business career with ten years at Royal
Dutch Shell Group, working mainly in the Middle East.
He has undertaken ad hoc advisory work for
Government on industrial policy. He is a non-executive
Director of Galiform.

163

RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

The review The review team was led by Jon Booth. Its members
were Sue Bide, Stephanie Dales, Rob Faull, Martin Hall,
Alistair Rawson, Michael Ridley and Duncan Tessier.
The team was drawn from different Departments in
the civil service and private sector. To ensure the
independence of the review, none of those appointed
had been employed previously in the postal sector.

team

Printed in the UK for The Stationery Office Limited
on behalf of the Controller of Her Majesty's Stationery Office
1D6001988 12/08 416254 19585

Printed on Paper containing 75% recycled fibre content minimum.

164
RLIT0000206
RLIT0000206

XTSO

information & publishing solutions

Published by TSO (The Stationery Office) and available from:

Online
www.tsoshop.co.uk

Mail, Telephone, Fax & E-mail

TsO

PO Box 29, Norwich NR3 1GN

Telephone orders/General enquiries: 0870 600 5522

Order through the Parliamentary Hotline Lo-call 0845 7 023474
Fax orders: 0870 600 5533

Email: customerservices@
‘Textphone: 0870 240 3701

TSO Shops
16 Arthur Street, Belfast BT! 4GD
028 9023 8451 Fax 028 9023 540

ISBN 978-0-10-17529%
7 Lothian Road, Edinburgh EH3 9AZ I
9

80101 lI

v4

0870 606 5566 Fax 0870 606 5588

The Parliamentary Bookshop
12 Bridge Street, Parliament Square
London SWIA 2)X.

TSO@Blackwell and other Accredited Agents
