RLIT0000491
RLITO000491

28/11/2024, 11:51 Votp

Home / News / Meetthe Committee / Postmasters Stories / Horizon
/ Current Mails rates / Retailpartners / HRSupport / Wellbeing Support

/ Contact

Welcome, Voice of the Postmaster is an Organisation run by Postmasters, for Postmasters. We
offer support to all Postmaster where we can. Members are regularly online to offer support on

problems that you may be experiencing
Join us in making a difference!
Over 940 members and growing!

Wellbeing Support has now been added to the website.

Click the link in the menue bar above to access Wellbeing Support

Watching the BBC programme “Surviving the Post office” was truly emotional and once again shows the
dreadful culture that pervades Post Office Ltd.

Unfortunately, and unbelievably except to Postmasters, that same culture persists to this day. Once
again, we learnt what our fellow postmasters endured and the isolation that came with it. VOTP
vigorously challenges Post Office Ltd on their comment made:

Horizon is obviously not “Robust” as has been demonstrated by the evidence presented to the Horizon
Inquiry and the continuing experience of serving Postmasters.

Whoever in Post Office Ltd wrote and approved this statement should apologise publicly and
unreservedly for the distress that this misleading statement has caused.

Compensation needs to be paid, before money is spent on a new computer system. We call on the
Government to take control of the compensation schemes to ensure that full redress is paid without
any further delay. This money should first go toward the redress for the victims, how can we move

https://www.votp.co.uk 14
RLIT0000491
RLIT0000491

28/11/2024, 11:51 Votp
forwards and make a better future when the Government and Post Office Ltd will not properly address
the failings of the past?

Post office Ltd should have no further involvement in the payment of redress except for providing
information and we again ask the government for an independent panel to be bought in to fast track
payments and redress, so we can rebuild the future network and safeguarding current postmasters’

investment in the business.

SUPPORT

Our Mission YOUR LOCAL POST OFFICE

1) Fair remuneration for the work & responsibility
we do for Post Office Ltd (POL). Taking into
account the overheads involved,

2) The right to democratic independent
representation on all matters.

3) The truth from Post Office Ltd about every

branch's future, Network Strengthening

Our community building service helps Through our network strengthening service, we
postmasters connect with each other, share work to enhance collaboration and

experiences, and provide mutual support to communication among postmasters, leading to a

strengthen the network. more cohesive and resilient postal network.
Frequently How do I join VOTP? A
Asked
Questions To join VOTP, simply click link below:

GRO

https://www.votp.co.uk 214
28/11/2024, 11:51

Votp

RLIT0000491
RLITO000491

“I have found great value in being part of VOTP. The community is
supportive, and the resources provided have helped me improve my
post office operations significantly. Highly recommend it!”

Contact us

Reach out to us for any
inquiries or to join our

community of postmasters.

Name *

Email address *

Message *

bmit form

About us

Location

Voice of the Postmaster (VOTP)
United Kingdom

f

f Share X Share

Voice of the Postmaster (VOTP) is a unique platform dedicated to postmasters
from up and down the country. We aim to provide a space for postmasters to
come together, share experiences, and support each other in their important

role within the postal service. Our mission is to empower postmasters with

https://www.votp.co.uk

in Share

ib
ed

Ww

5 votes

3/4
RLIT0000491
RLIT0000491

28/11/2024, 11:51 Votp
valuable resources, foster collaboration, and ultimately contribute to the
growth and sustainability of the postal network.

Join Now

eM mm

© Postmasters Stories
¢ Horizon

© Current Mails rates
¢ Retail partners

¢ HR Support

° Wellbeing Support
© Contact

Create Your Own Website With e webador

voiceofthepostmaster

© 2024 Votp.co.uk Powered by Webador

https://www.votp.co.uk ala
