RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

THE COMBINED CODE ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

July 2003
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
CONTENTS

The Combined Code on Corporate Governance

RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

Pages

Preamble

COMPANIES

Directors

Remuneration
Accountability and Audit
Relations with Shareholders

Section

voOwOr=

INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS
Institutional Shareholders

Section

mr

Schedule A Provisions on the design of performance related
remuneration

Schedule B Guidance on liability of non-executive directors: care,
skill and diligence

Schedule C Disclosure of corporate governance arrangements

Related Guidance and Good Practice Suggestions

4-19

411
12-14
15-17
18-19

19-20

19-20

21

22
23-24

Guidance on internal control (The Turnbull Guidance)
Guidance on audit committees (The Smith Guidance)

Suggestions for good practice from the Higgs report
Guidance for the chairman
Guidance for non-executive directors
Summary of the principal duties of the remuneration

committee

Summary of the principal duties of the nomination
committee

Pre-appointment due diligence checklist for new board
members

Sample letter of non-executive director appointment
Induction checklist
Performance evaluation checklist

Useful Web Links

27-41
43-57
59-79
61-62
63-64
65-66
67-68
69-70
71-74
75-76

77-79

81-82

RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

PREAMBLE

1.

This Code supersedes and replaces the Combined Code issued by the
Hampel Committee on Corporate Governance in June 1998. It derives
from a review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors by
Derek Higgs' and a review of audit committees’ by a group led by Sir
Robert Smith.

The Financial Services Authority has said that it will replace the 1998
Code that is annexed to the Listing Rules with the revised Code and will
seek to make consequential Rule changes. There will be consultation on
the necessary Rule changes but not further consultation on the Code
provisions themselves.

It is intended that the new Code will apply for reporting years beginning on
or after 1 November 2003.

The Code contains main and supporting principles and provisions. The
existing Listing Rules require listed companies to make a disclosure
statement in two parts in relation to the Code. In the first part of the
statement, the company has to report on how it applies the principles in
the Code. In future this will need to cover both main and supporting
principles. The form and content of this part of the statement are not
prescribed, the intention being that companies should have a free hand to
explain their governance policies in the light of the principles, including
any special circumstances applying to them which have led to a particular
approach. In the second part of the statement the company has either to
confirm that it complies with the Code’s provisions or — where it does not
— to provide an explanation. This ‘comply or explain’ approach has been
in operation for over ten years and the flexibility it offers has been widely
welcomed both by company boards and by investors. It is for
shareholders and others to evaluate the company’s statement

While it is expected that listed companies will comply with the Code’s
provisions most of the time, it is recognised that departure from the
provisions of the Code may be justified in particular circumstances. Every
company must review each provision carefully and give a considered
explanation if it departs from the Code provisions.

“Review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors”, published January 2003.
“Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance”, published January 2003.

1
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

10.

Smaller listed companies, in particular those new to listing, may judge that
some of the provisions are disproportionate or less relevant in their case.
Some of the provisions do not apply to companies below FTSE 350. Such
companies may nonetheless consider that it would be appropriate to
adopt the approach in the Code and they are encouraged to consider this.
Investment companies typically have a different board structure, which
may affect the relevance of particular provisions.

Whilst recognising that directors are appointed by shareholders who are
the owners of companies, it is important that those concerned with the
evaluation of governance should do so with common sense in order to
promote partnership and trust, based on mutual understanding. They
should pay due regard to companies’ individual circumstances and bear
in mind in particular the size and complexity of the company and the
nature of the risks and challenges it faces. Whilst shareholders have
every right to challenge companies’ explanations if they are unconvincing,
they should not be evaluated in a mechanistic way and departures from
the Code should not be automatically treated as breaches. Institutional
shareholders and their agents should be careful to respond to the
statements from companies in a manner that supports the ‘comply or
explain’ principle. As the principles in Section 2 make clear, institutional
shareholders should carefully consider explanations given for departure
from the Code and make reasoned judgements in each case. They should
put their views to the company and be prepared to enter a dialogue if they
do not accept the company’s position. Institutional shareholders should be
prepared to put such views in writing where appropriate.

Nothing in this Code should be taken to override the general requirements
of law to treat shareholders equally in access to information.

This publication includes guidance on how to comply with particular parts
of the Code: first, “Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the
Combined Code”’, produced by the Turnbull Committee, which relates to
Code provisions on internal control (C.2 and part of C.3 in the Code); and,
second, “Audit Committees: Combined Code Guidance”, produced by the
Smith Group, which relates to the provisions on audit committees and
auditors (C.3 of the Code). In both cases, the guidance suggests ways
of applying the relevant Code principles and of complying with the
relevant Code provisions.

In addition, this volume also includes suggestions for good practice from
the Higgs report.

“Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code”, published by the Institute of

Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in September 1999.

2
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

11. I The revised Code does not include material in the previous Code on the
disclosure of directors’ remuneration. This is because “The Directors'
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002” are now in force and supersede
the earlier Code provisions. These require the directors of a company to
prepare a remuneration report. It is important that this report is clear,
transparent and understandable to shareholders.

* The Directors' Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, S.I. no.1986.

3
CODE OF BEST PRACTICE

SECTION 1 COMPANIES
A. DIRECTORS

A.1 The Board

Main Principle

Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is
collectively responsible for the success of the company.

Supporting Principles

The board’s role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company
within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to
be assessed and managed. The board should set the company’s strategic
aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in
place for the company to meet its objectives and review management
performance. The board should set the company’s values and standards
and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders and others are
understood and met.

All directors must take decisions objectively in the interests of the
company.

As part of their role as members of a unitary board, non-executive
directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on
strategy. Non-executive directors should scrutinise the performance of
management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the
reporting of performance. They should satisfy themselves on the integrity
of financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk
management are robust and defensible. They are responsible for
determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and
have a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing,
executive directors, and in succession planning.

RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Code Provisions

Al

A.1.2

A1.3

Al.4

A115

A.2

The board should meet sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties
effectively. There should be a formal schedule of matters specifically
reserved for its decision. The annual report should include a statement of
how the board operates, including a high level statement of which types
of decisions are to be taken by the board and which are to be delegated
to management.

The annual report should identify the chairman, the deputy chairman
(where there is one), the chief executive, the senior independent director
and the chairmen and members of the nomination, audit and
remuneration committees. It should also set out the number of meetings
of the board and those committees and individual attendance by directors.

The chairman should hold meetings with the non-executive directors
without the executives present. Led by the senior independent director,
the non-executive directors should meet without the chairman present at
least annually to appraise the chairman’s performance (as described in
A.6.1) and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.

Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the
running of the company or a proposed action, they should ensure that
their concerns are recorded in the board minutes. On resignation, a non-
executive director should provide a written statement to the chairman, for
circulation to the board, if they have any such concerns.

The company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of
legal action against its directors.

Chairman and chief executive

Main Principle

There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the
company between the running of the board and the executive
responsibility for the running of the company’s business. No one
individual should have unfettered powers of decision.

Supporting Principle

The chairman is responsible for leadership of the board, ensuring its
effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda. The
chairman is also responsible for ensuring that the directors receive
accurate, timely and clear information. The chairman should ensure
effective communication with shareholders. The chairman should also
facilitate the effective contribution of non-executive directors in particular
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

and ensure constructive relations between executive and non-executive
directors.

Code Provisions

A.2.1 The roles of chairman and chief executive should not be exercised by the
same individual. The division of responsibilities between the chairman
and chief executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and
agreed by the board.

A.2.2° The chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set
out in A.3.1 below. A chief executive should not go on to be chairman of
the same company. If exceptionally a board decides that a chief executive
should become chairman, the board should consult major shareholders in
advance and should set out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the
appointment and in the next annual report.

A.3_ Board balance and independence
Main Principle

The board should include a balance of executive and non-executive
directors (and in particular independent non-executive directors)
such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate
the board’s decision taking.

Supporting Principles

The board should not be so large as to be unwieldy. The board should be
of sufficient size that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate
for the requirements of the business and that changes to the board's
composition can be managed without undue disruption.

To ensure that power and information are not concentrated in one or two
individuals, there should be a strong presence on the board of both
executive and non-executive directors.

The value of ensuring that committee membership is refreshed and that
undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals should be taken into
account in deciding chairmanship and membership of committees.

No one other than the committee chairman and members is entitled to be
present at a meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration committee,
but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.

© Compliance or otherwise with this provision need only be reported for the year in which the
appointment is made.
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Code provisions

A.3.1 The board should identify in the annual report each non-executive director
it considers to be independent®. The board should determine whether the
director is independent in character and judgement and whether there are
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear
to affect, the director’s judgement. The board should state its reasons if it
determines that a director is independent notwithstanding the existence of
relationships or circumstances which may appear relevant to its
determination, including if the director:

e has been an employee of the company or group within the last five
years;

e has, or has had within the last three years, a material business
relationship with the company either directly, or as a partner,
shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a
relationship with the company;

e has received or receives additional remuneration from the company
apart from a director's fee, participates in the company’s share
option or a performance-related pay scheme, or is a member of the
company’s pension scheme;

e has close family ties with any of the company’s advisers, directors or
senior employees;

e holds cross-directorships or has significant links with other directors
through involvement in other companies or bodies;

e represents a significant shareholder; or

e has served on the board for more than nine years from the date of
their first election.

A.3.2 Except for smaller companies’, at least half the board, excluding the
chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the
board to be independent. A smaller company should have at least two
independent non-executive directors.

A.3.3 The board should appoint one of the independent non-executive directors
to be the senior independent director. The senior independent director
should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact
through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance
director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.

*  A.2.2 states that the chairman should, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in this
provision, but thereafter the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the chairman.

7 Asmaller company is one that is below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the
reporting year.
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

AA

Appointments to the Board

Main Principle

There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for
the appointment of new directors to the board.

Supporting Principles

Appointments to the board should be made on merit and against objective
criteria. Care should be taken to ensure that appointees have enough
time available to devote to the job. This is particularly important in the
case of chairmanships.

The board should satisfy itself that plans are in place for orderly
succession for appointments to the board and to senior management, so
as to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the
company and on the board.

Code Provisions

A4.1

A4.2

A.4.3

There should be a nomination committee which should lead the process
for board appointments and make recommendations to the board. A
majority of members of the nomination committee should be independent
non-executive directors. The chairman or an independent non-executive
director should chair the committee, but the chairman should not chair the
nomination committee when it is dealing with the appointment of a
successor to the chairmanship. The nomination committee should make
available® its terms of reference, explaining its role and the authority
delegated to it by the board.

The nomination committee should evaluate the balance of skills,
knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of this evaluation,
prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular
appointment.

For the appointment of a chairman, the nomination committee should
prepare a job specification, including an assessment of the time
commitment expected, recognising the need for availability in the event of
crises. A chairman’s other significant commitments should be disclosed to
the board before appointment and included in the annual report. Changes
to such commitments should be reported to the board as they arise, and
included in the next annual report. No individual should be appointed to a
second chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company’.

® The requirement to make the information available would be met by making it available on request and
by including the information on the company’s website.

° Compliance or otherwise with this provision need only be reported for the year in which the
appointment is made.
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

A4.4

A4.5

A4.6

AS

The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors
should be made available for inspection’®. The letter of appointment
should set out the expected time commitment. Non-executive directors
should undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is
expected of them. Their other significant commitments should be
disclosed to the board before appointment, with a broad indication of the
time involved and the board should be informed of subsequent changes.

The board should not agree to a full time executive director taking on more
than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company nor the
chairmanship of such a company.

A separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the
nomination committee, including the process it has used in relation to
board appointments. An explanation should be given if neither an external
search consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the
appointment of a chairman or a non-executive director.

Information and professional development

Main Principle

The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information in
a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its
duties. All directors should receive induction on joining the board
and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.

Supporting Principles

The chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive
accurate, timely and clear information. Management has an obligation to
provide such information but directors should seek clarification or
amplification where necessary.

The chairman should ensure that the directors continually update their
skills and the knowledge and familiarity with the company required to fulfil
their role both on the board and on board committees. The company
should provide the necessary resources for developing and updating its
directors’ knowledge and capabilities.

Under the direction of the chairman, the company secretary’s
responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the board

© The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be made available for
inspection by any person at the company’s registered office during normal business hours and at the
AGM (for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting).

9
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

and its committees and between senior management and non-executive
directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional
development as required.

The company secretary should be responsible for advising the board
through the chairman on all governance matters.

Code Provisions

A.5.1 The chairman should ensure that new directors receive a full, formal and
tailored induction on joining the board. As part of this, the company should
offer to major shareholders the opportunity to meet a new non-executive
director.

A.5.2 The board should ensure that directors, especially non-executive
directors, have access to independent professional advice at the
company’s expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their
responsibilities as directors. Committees should be provided with
sufficient resources to undertake their duties.

A.5.3 All directors should have access to the advice and services of the
company secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that
board procedures are complied with. Both the appointment and removal
of the company secretary should be a matter for the board as a whole.

A.6 Performance evaluation
Main Principle

The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation
of its own performance and that of its committees and individual
directors.

Supporting Principle

Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each director continues
to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role
(including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and any
other duties). The chairman should act on the results of the performance
evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses
of the board and, where appropriate, proposing new members be
appointed to the board or seeking the resignation of directors.
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Code Provision

A.6.1 The board should state in the annual report how performance evaluation
of the board, its committees and its individual directors has been
conducted. The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent
director, should be responsible for performance evaluation of the
chairman, taking into account the views of executive directors.

A.7_ Re-election
Main Principle

All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals,
subject to continued satisfactory performance. The board should
ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.

Code Provisions

A.7.1 All directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first
annual general meeting after their appointment, and to re-election
thereafter at intervals of no more than three years. The names of
directors submitted for election or re-election should be accompanied by
sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information to enable
shareholders to take an informed decision on their election.

A.7.2 Non-executive directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to
re-election and to Companies Acts provisions relating to the removal of a
director. The board should set out to shareholders in the papers
accompanying a resolution to elect a non-executive director why they
believe an individual should be elected. The chairman should confirm to
shareholders when proposing re-election that, following formal
performance evaluation, the individual’s performance continues to be
effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role. Any term beyond six
years (e.g. two three-year terms) for a non-executive director should be
subject to particularly rigorous review, and should take into account the
need for progressive refreshing of the board. Non-executive directors
may serve longer than nine years (e.g. three three-year terms), subject to
annual re-election. Serving more than nine years could be relevant to the
determination of a non-executive director’s independence (as set out in
provision A.3.1).

a
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

B. REMUNERATION
B.1. The Level and Make-up of Remuneration"
Main Principles

Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and
motivate directors of the quality required to run the company
successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than is
necessary for this purpose. A significant proportion of executive
directors’ remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to
corporate and individual performance.

Supporting Principle

The remuneration committee should judge where to position their
company relative to other companies. But they should use such
comparisons with caution, in view of the risk of an upward ratchet of
remuneration levels with no corresponding improvement in performance.
They should also be sensitive to pay and employment conditions
elsewhere in the group, especially when determining annual salary
increases.

Code Provisions

Remuneration policy

B.1.1 The performance-related elements of remuneration should form a
significant proportion of the total remuneration package of executive

directors and should be designed to align their interests with those of
shareholders and to give these directors keen incentives to perform at the

highest levels. In designing schemes of performance-related
remuneration, the remuneration committee should follow the provisions in
Schedule A to this Code.

B.1.2 Executive share options should not be offered at a discount save as
permitted by the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules.

B.1.3 Levels of remuneration for non-executive directors should reflect the time
commitment and responsibilities of the role. Remuneration for non-
executive directors should not include share options. If, exceptionally,
options are granted, shareholder approval should be sought in advance
and any shares acquired by exercise of the options should be held until at

"Views have been sought by the Department of Trade and Industry by 30 September 2003 on whether,
and if so how, further measures are required to enable shareholders to ensure that compensation reflects
performance when directors’ contracts are terminated: See “Rewards for Failure”: Directors’
Remuneration — Contracts, performance and severance, June 2003.

12
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

least one year after the non-executive director leaves the board. Holding
of share options could be relevant to the determination of a non-executive
director's independence (as set out in provision A.3.1).

B.1.4 Where a company releases an executive director to serve as a non-
executive director elsewhere, the remuneration report’? should include a
statement as to whether or not the director will retain such earnings and,
if so, what the remuneration is.

Service Contracts and Compensation

B.1.5 The remuneration committee should carefully consider what
compensation commitments (including pension contributions and all other
elements) their directors’ terms of appointment would entail in the event of
early termination. The aim should be to avoid rewarding poor
performance. They should take a robust line on reducing compensation
to reflect departing directors’ obligations to mitigate loss.

B.1.6 Notice or contract periods should be set at one year or less. If it is
necessary to offer longer notice or contract periods to new directors
recruited from outside, such periods should reduce to one year or less
after the initial period.

B.2 Procedure
Main Principle

There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing
policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration
packages of individual directors. No director should be involved in
deciding his or her own remuneration.

Supporting Principles

The remuneration committee should consult the chairman and/or chief
executive about their proposals relating to the remuneration of other
executive directors. The remuneration committee should also be
responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive director
remuneration. Where executive directors or senior management are
involved in advising or supporting the remuneration committee, care
should be taken to recognise and avoid conflicts of interest.

The chairman of the board should ensure that the company maintains
contact as required with its principal shareholders about remuneration in
the same way as for other matters.

As required under the Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations.

13
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Code Provisions

B.2.1

B.2.2

B.2.3

B.2.4

The board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three, or
in the case of smaller companies’ two, members, who should all be
independent non-executive directors. The remuneration committee should
make available“ its terms of reference, explaining its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board. Where remuneration consultants
are appointed, a statement should be made available’® of whether they
have any other connection with the company.

The remuneration committee should have delegated responsibility for
setting remuneration for all executive directors and the chairman,
including pension rights and any compensation payments. The
committee should also recommend and monitor the level and structure of
remuneration for senior management. The definition of ‘senior
management’ for this purpose should be determined by the board but
should normally include the first layer of management below board level.

The board itself or, where required by the Articles of Association, the
shareholders should determine the remuneration of the non-executive
directors within the limits set in the Articles of Association. Where
permitted by the Articles, the board may however delegate this
responsibility to a committee, which might include the chief executive.

Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term
incentive schemes (as defined in the Listing Rules) and significant
changes to existing schemes, save in the circumstances permitted by the
Listing Rules.

* See footnote 7
“ See footnote 8
* See footnote 8
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

ic: ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT
C.1_ Financial Reporting
Main Principle

The board should present a balanced and understandable
assessment of the company’s position and prospects.

Supporting Principle

The board’s responsibility to present a balanced and understandable
assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports
and reports to regulators as well as to information required to be
presented by statutory requirements.

Code Provisions

C.1.1 The directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for
preparing the accounts and there should be a statement by the auditors
about their reporting responsibilities.

C.1.2 The directors should report that the business is a going concern, with
supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.

C.2 Internal Control'’®

Main Principle

The board should maintain a sound system of internal control to
safeguard shareholders’ investment and the company’s assets.

Code Provision

C.2.1 The board should, at least annually, conduct a review of the effectiveness
of the group’s system of internal controls and should report to
shareholders that they have done so. The review should cover all
material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls
and risk management systems.

© The Turnbull guidance suggests means of applying this part of the Code.

15
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

C.3

Audit Committee and Auditors”

Main Principle

Code

C.3.1

C.3.2

The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for
considering how they should apply the financial reporting and
internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate
relationship with the company’s auditors.

provisions

The board should establish an audit committee of at least three, or in the
case of smaller companies’ two, members, who should all be
independent non-executive directors. The board should satisfy itself that
at least one member of the audit committee has recent and relevant
financial experience.

The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be set out
in written terms of reference and should include:

e to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the company,
and any formal announcements relating to the company’s financial
performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements
contained in them;

e to review the company’s internal financial controls and, unless
expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee composed
of independent directors, or by the board itself, to review the
company’s internal control and risk management systems;

e to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company’s internal
audit function;

e to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the
appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor
and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the
external auditor;

e to review and monitor the external auditor's independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements;

e to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external
auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant
ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the
external audit firm; and to report to the board, identifying any

The Smith guidance suggests means of applying this part of the Code.
© See footnote 7
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement
is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

C.3.3 The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board, should be made available.'* A
separate section of the annual report should describe the work of the
committee in discharging those responsibilities.

C.3.4 The audit committee should review arrangements by which staff of the
company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties
in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The audit committee’s
objective should be to ensure that arrangements are in place for the
proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for
appropriate follow-up action.

C.3.5 The audit committee should monitor and review the effectiveness of the
internal audit activities. Where there is no internal audit function, the audit
committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an
internal audit function and make a recommendation to the board, and the
reasons for the absence of such a function should be explained in the
relevant section of the annual report.

C.3.6 The audit committee should have primary responsibility for making a
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the
external auditors. If the board does not accept the audit committee’s
recommendation, it should include in the annual report, and in any papers
recommending appointment or re-appointment, a statement from the audit
committee explaining the recommendation and should set out reasons
why the board has taken a different position.

C.3.7 The annual report should explain to shareholders how, if the auditor
provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity and independence is
safeguarded.

* See footnote 8.

17
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

D. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
D.1 Dialogue with Institutional Shareholders
Main Principle

There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual
understanding of objectives. The board as a whole has
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with
shareholders takes place.”

Supporting Principles

Whilst recognising that most shareholder contact is with the chief
executive and finance director, the chairman (and the senior independent
director and other directors as appropriate) should maintain sufficient
contact with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns.

The board should keep in touch with shareholder opinion in whatever
ways are most practical and efficient.

Code Provisions

D.1.1 The chairman should ensure that the views of shareholders are
communicated to the board as a whole. The chairman should discuss
governance and strategy with major shareholders. Non-executive
directors should be offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major
shareholders and should expect to attend them if requested by major
shareholders. The senior independent director should attend sufficient
meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in
order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and
concerns of major shareholders.

D.1.2 The board should state in the annual report the steps they have taken to
ensure that the members of the board, and in particular the non-executive
directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders
about their company, for example through direct face-to-face contact,
analysts’ or brokers’ briefings and surveys of shareholder opinion.

D.2 Constructive Use of the AGM
Main Principle

The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors and
to encourage their participation.

® Nothing in these principles or provisions should be taken to override the general requirements of law
to treat shareholders equally in access to information.

18
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Code Provisions

D.2.1 The company should count all proxy votes and, except where a poll is
called, should indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, and
the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions,
after it has been dealt with on a show of hands. The company should
ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.

D.2.2 The company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each
substantially separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution
at the AGM relating to the report and accounts.

D.2.3 The chairman should arrange for the chairmen of the audit, remuneration
and nomination committees to be available to answer questions at the
AGM and for all directors to attend.

D.2.4 The company should arrange for the Notice of the AGM and related

papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the
meeting.

SECTION 2 INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS

E. INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS”
E.1 Dialogue with companies
Main Principle

Institutional shareholders should enter into a dialogue with
companies based on the mutual understanding of objectives.

Supporting Principles

Institutional shareholders should apply the principles set out in the
Institutional Shareholders’ Committee’s “The Responsibilities of
Institutional Shareholders and Agents — Statement of Principles’”, which
should be reflected in fund manager contracts.

2! Agents such as investment managers, or voting services, are frequently appointed by institutional
shareholders to act on their behalf and these principles should accordingly be read as applying where
appropriate to the agents of institutional shareholders.

2 Available at website: www.investmentuk.org.uk/press/2002/20021021-01 .pdf

19
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

E.2

Evaluation of Governance Disclosures

Main Principle

When evaluating companies’ governance arrangements, particularly
those relating to board structure and composition, institutional
shareholders should give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their
attention.

Supporting Principle

E.3

Institutional shareholders should consider carefully explanations given for
departure from this Code and make reasoned judgements in each case.
They should give an explanation to the company, in writing where
appropriate, and be prepared to enter a dialogue if they do not accept the
company’s position. They should avoid a box-ticking approach to
assessing a company’s corporate governance. They should bear in mind
in particular the size and complexity of the company and the nature of the
risks and challenges it faces.

Shareholder Voting

Main Principle

Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make considered
use of their votes.

Supporting Principles

Institutional shareholders should take steps to ensure their voting
intentions are being translated into practice.

Institutional shareholders should, on request, make available to their
clients information on the proportion of resolutions on which votes were
cast and non-discretionary proxies lodged.

Major shareholders should attend AGMs where appropriate and
practicable. Companies and registrars should facilitate this.

20
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

Schedule A: Provisions on the design of performance

related remuneration

The remuneration committee should consider whether the directors
should be eligible for annual bonuses. If so, performance conditions
should be relevant, stretching and designed to enhance shareholder
value. Upper limits should be set and disclosed. There may be a case for
part payment in shares to be held for a significant period.

The remuneration committee should consider whether the directors
should be eligible for benefits under long-term incentive schemes.
Traditional share option schemes should be weighed against other kinds
of long-term incentive scheme. In normal circumstances, shares granted
or other forms of deferred remuneration should not vest, and options
should not be exercisable, in less than three years. Directors should be
encouraged to hold their shares for a further period after vesting or
exercise, subject to the need to finance any costs of acquisition and
associated tax liabilities.

Any new long-term incentive schemes which are proposed should be
approved by shareholders and should preferably replace any existing
schemes or at least form part of a well considered overall plan,
incorporating existing schemes. The total rewards potentially available
should not be excessive.

Payouts or grants under all incentive schemes, including new grants
under existing share option schemes, should be subject to challenging
performance criteria reflecting the company’s objectives. Consideration
should be given to criteria which reflect the company’s performance
relative to a group of comparator companies in some key variables such
as total shareholder return.

Grants under executive share option and other long-term incentive
schemes should normally be phased rather than awarded in one large
block.

In general, only basic salary should be pensionable.
The remuneration committee should consider the pension consequences
and associated costs to the company of basic salary increases and any

other changes in pensionable remuneration, especially for directors close
to retirement.

21
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474
duly 2003 The Combined Code
Schedule B: Guidance on liability of non-executive

directors: care, skill and diligence
1. Although non-executive directors and executive directors have as board

members the same legal duties and objectives, the time devoted to the
company’s affairs is likely to be significantly less for a non-executive
director than for an executive director and the detailed knowledge and
experience of a company’s affairs that could reasonably be expected of a
non-executive director will generally be less than for an executive director.
These matters may be relevant in assessing the knowledge, skill and
experience which may reasonably be expected of a non-executive
director and therefore the care, skill and diligence that a non-executive
director may be expected to exercise.

2. In this context, the following elements of the Code may also be
particularly relevant.

(i) In order to enable directors to fulfil their duties, the Code states
that:

e The letter of appointment of the director should set out the
expected time commitment (Code provision A.4.4); and

e The board should be supplied in a timely manner with
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to
discharge its duties. The chairman is responsible for ensuring
that the directors are provided by management with accurate,
timely and clear information. (Code principles A.5).

(ii) I Non-executive directors should themselves:

e Undertake appropriate induction and regularly update and
refresh their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the company
(Code principle A.5 and provision A.5.1)

e Seek appropriate clarification or amplification of information
and, where necessary, take and follow appropriate
professional advice. (Code principle A.5 and provision A.5.2)

e Where they have concerns about the running of the company
or a proposed action, ensure that these are addressed by the
board and, to the extent that they are not resolved, ensure that
they are recorded in the board minutes (Code provision A.1.4).

e Give a statement to the board if they have such unresolved
concerns on resignation (Code provision A.1.4)

3. It is up to each non-executive director to reach a view as to what is
necessary in particular circumstances to comply with the duty of care, skill
and diligence they owe as a director to the company. In considering
whether or not a person is in breach of that duty, a court would take into
account all relevant circumstances. These may include having regard to
the above where relevant to the issue of liability of a non-executive
director.

22
duly 2003

RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

The Combined Code

Schedule C: Disclosure of corporate governance

arrangements

The Listing Rules require a statement to be included in the annual report relating
to compliance with the Code, as described in the preamble.

For ease of reference, the specific requirements in the Code for disclosure are
set out below:

The annual report should record:

a statement of how the board operates, including a high level
statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the
board and which are to be delegated to management (A.1.1);

the names of the chairman, the deputy chairman (where there is
one), the chief executive, the senior independent director and the
chairmen and members of the nomination, audit and remuneration
committees (A.1.2);

the number of meetings of the board and those committees and
individual attendance by directors (A.1.2);

the names of the non-executive directors whom the board
determines to be independent, with reasons where necessary
(A.3.1);

the other significant commitments of the chairman and any
changes to them during the year (A.4.3);

how performance evaluation of the board, its committees and its
directors has been conducted (A.6.1);

the steps the board has taken to ensure that members of the
board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an
understanding of the views of major shareholders about their
company (D.1.2).

The report should also include:

a separate section describing the work of the nomination
committee, including the process it has used in relation to board
appointments and an explanation if neither external search
consultancy nor open advertising has been used in the
appointment of a chairman or a non-executive director (A.4.6);

a description of the work of the remuneration committee as
required under the Directors’ Remuneration Reporting Regulations
2002, and including, where an executive director serves as a non-
executive director elsewhere, whether or not the director will retain
such earnings and, if so, what the remuneration is (B.1.4);

an explanation from the directors of their responsibility for
preparing the accounts and a statement by the auditors about
their reporting responsibilities (C.1.1);

23
duly 2003

RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

The Combined Code

a statement from the directors that the business is a going
concern, with supporting assumptions or qualifications as
necessary (C.1.2);

a report that the board has conducted a review of the
effectiveness of the group’s system of internal controls (C.2.1);

a separate section describing the work of the audit committee in
discharging its responsibilities (C.3.3);

where there is no internal audit function, the reasons for the
absence of such a function (C.3.5);

where the board does not accept the audit committee’s
recommendation on the appointment, reappointment or removal of
an external auditor, a statement from the audit committee
explaining the recommendation and the reasons why the board
has taken a different position (C.3.6); and

an explanation of how, if the auditor provides non-audit services,
auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded (C.3.7).

The following information should be made available (which may be met by

making it available on request and placing the information available on the

company’s website):

the terms of reference of the nomination, remuneration and audit
committees, explaining their role and the authority delegated to
them by the board (A.4.1, B.2.1 and C.3.3);

the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive
directors (A.4.4) (see footnote 10 on page 9); and

where remuneration consultants are appointed, a statement of
whether they have any other connection with the company (B.2.1).

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers accompanying a

resolution to elect or re-elect:

sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to take an
informed decision on their election or re-election (A.7.1).

why they believe an individual should be elected to a non-
executive role (A.7.2).

on re-election of a non-executive director, confirmation from the
chairman that, following formal performance evaluation, the
individual’s performance continues to be effective and to
demonstrate commitment to the role, including commitment of
time for board and committee meetings and any other duties (A.7.2).

24
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

The board should set out to shareholders in the papers recommending
appointment or reappointment of an external auditor:

° if the board does not accept the audit committee’s
recommendation, a statement from the audit committee explaining
the recommendation and from the board setting out reasons why
they have taken a different position (C.3.6).

25
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

GUIDANCE ON INTERNAL CONTROL

(The Turnbull Guidance)

CONTENTS

Introduction

Internal control requirements of the Combined Code
Objectives of the guidance

The importance of internal control and risk management
Groups of companies

The Appendix

Maintaining a sound system of internal control
Responsibilities

Elements of a sound system of internal control

Reviewing the effectiveness of internal control

Paragraph
number(s)

1-7
8-9
10-13
14
15

16-19
20-24

Responsibilities
The process for reviewing effectiveness

The board’s statement on internal control

25-26
27-34

35-41

Internal audit

42-47

Appendix

Assessing the effectiveness of the company’s risk and control processes

Note

Principle D.2, provision D.2.1 and provision D.2.2 of the old (1998) Code appear in the new (2003)
Code as principle C.2, provision C.2.1 and (in an amended form) provision C.3.5. The Code

references in the guidance on internal control should be read accordingly.

27
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

INTRODUCTION

Internal control requirements of the Combined Code

1.

When the Combined Code of the Committee on Corporate Governance
(the Code) was published, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England & Wales agreed with the London Stock Exchange that it would
provide guidance to assist listed companies to implement the
requirements in the Code relating to internal control.

Principle D.2 of the Code states that ‘The board should maintain a sound
system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the
company’s assets’.

Provision D.2.1 states that ‘The directors should, at least annually,
conduct a review of the effectiveness of the group’s system of internal
control and should report to shareholders that they have done so. The
review should cover all controls, including financial, operational and
compliance controls and risk management’.

Provision D.2.2 states that ‘Companies which do not have an internal
audit function should from time to time review the need for one’.

Paragraph 12.43A of the London Stock Exchange Listing Rules states that
‘in the case of a company incorporated in the United Kingdom, the
following additional items must be included in its annual report and
accounts:

(a) anarrative statement of how it has applied the principles set out in
Section 1 of the Combined Code, providing explanation which
enables its shareholders to evaluate how the principles have been
applied;

(b) a statement as to whether or not it has complied throughout the
accounting period with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of
the Combined Code. A company that has not complied with the
Code provisions, or complied with only some of the Code provisions
or (in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a continuing
nature) complied for only part of an accounting period, must specify
the Code provisions with which it has not complied, and (where
relevant) for what part of the period such non- compliance
continued, and give reasons for any non-compliance’.

The Preamble to the Code, which is appended to the Listing Rules, makes
it clear that there is no prescribed form or content for the statement setting
out how the various principles in the Code have been applied. The
intention is that companies should have a free hand to explain their

29
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

governance policies in the light of the principles, including any special
circumstances which have led to them adopting a particular approach.

7. The guidance in this document should be followed by boards of listed
companies in:

e assessing how the company has applied Code principle D.2;

e implementing the requirements of Code provisions D.2.1 and D.2.2;
and

e reporting on these matters to shareholders in the annual report and
accounts.

Objectives of the guidance
8. This guidance is intended to:

e reflect sound business practice whereby internal control is
embedded in the business processes by which a company pursues
its objectives;

e remain relevant over time in the continually evolving business
environment; and

e enable each company to apply it in a manner which takes account
of its particular circumstances.

The guidance requires directors to exercise judgement in reviewing how
the company has implemented the requirements of the Code relating to
internal control and reporting to shareholders thereon.

9. The guidance is based on the adoption by a company’s board of a risk-
based approach to establishing a sound system of internal control and
reviewing its effectiveness. This should be incorporated by the company
within its normal management and governance processes. It should not
be treated as a separate exercise undertaken to meet regulatory
requirements.

The importance of internal control and risk management
10. Acompany’s system of internal control has a key role in the management
of risks that are significant to the fulfilment of its business objectives. A

sound system of internal control contributes to safeguarding the
shareholders’ investment and the company’s assets.

30
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

11.

12.

13.

Internal control (as referred to in paragraph 20) facilitates the
effectiveness and efficiency of operations, helps ensure the reliability of
internal and external reporting and assists compliance with laws and
regulations.

Effective financial controls, including the maintenance of proper
accounting records, are an important element of internal control. They
help ensure that the company is not unnecessarily exposed to avoidable
financial risks and that financial information used within the business and
for publication is reliable. They also contribute to the safeguarding of
assets, including the prevention and detection of fraud.

A company’s objectives, its internal organisation and the environment in
which it operates are continually evolving and, as a result, the risks it
faces are continually changing. A sound system of internal control
therefore depends on a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature and
extent of the risks to which the company is exposed. Since profits are, in
part, the reward for successful risk- taking in business, the purpose of
internal control is to help manage and control risk appropriately rather
than to eliminate it.

Groups of companies

14.

Throughout this guidance, where reference is made to ‘company’ it should
be taken, where applicable, as referring to the group of which the
reporting company is the parent company. For groups of companies, the
review of effectiveness of internal control and the report to the
shareholders should be from the perspective of the group as a whole.

The Appendix

15.

The Appendix to this document contains questions which boards may
wish to consider in applying this guidance.

31
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

MAINTAINING A SOUND SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL

Responsibilities

16.

17.

18.

19.

The board of directors is responsible for the company’s system of internal
control. It should set appropriate policies on internal control and seek
regular assurance that will enable it to satisfy itself that the system is
functioning effectively. The board must further ensure that the system of
internal control is effective in managing risks in the manner which it has
approved.

In determining its policies with regard to internal control, and thereby
assessing what constitutes a sound system of internal control in the
particular circumstances of the company, the board's deliberations should
include consideration of the following factors:

e the nature and extent of the risks facing the company;

e the extent and categories of risk which it regards as acceptable for
the company to bear;

e the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising;

e the company’s ability to reduce the incidence and impact on the
business of risks that do materialise; and

e the costs of operating particular controls relative to the benefit
thereby obtained in managing the related risks.

It is the role of management to implement board policies on risk and
control. In fulfilling its responsibilities, management should identify and
evaluate the risks faced by the company for consideration by the board
and design, operate and monitor a suitable system of internal control
which implements the policies adopted by the board.

All employees have some responsibility for internal control as part of their
accountability for achieving objectives. They, collectively, should have the
necessary knowledge, skills, information and authority to establish,
operate and monitor the system of internal control. This will require an
understanding of the company, its objectives, the industries and markets
in which it operates, and the risks it faces.

Elements of a sound system of internal control

20.

An internal control system encompasses the policies, processes, tasks,
behaviours and other aspects of a company that, taken together:

32
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

21.

22.

23.

24.

e facilitate its effective and efficient operation by enabling it to respond
appropriately to significant business, operational, financial,
compliance and other risks to achieving the company’s objectives.
This includes the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or
from loss and fraud, and ensuring that liabilities are identified and
managed;

e help ensure the quality of internal and external reporting. This
requires the maintenance of proper records and processes that
generate a flow of timely, relevant and reliable information from
within and outside the organisation;

e help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and
also with internal policies with respect to the conduct of business.

Acompany’s system of internal control will reflect its control environment
which encompasses its organisational structure. The system will include:

e control activities;
e information and communications processes; and

e processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of the system
of internal control.

The system of internal control should:

e be embedded in the operations of the company and form part of its
culture;

e be capable of responding quickly to evolving risks to the business
arising from factors within the company and to changes in the
business environment; and

e _ include procedures for reporting immediately to appropriate levels of
management any significant control failings or weaknesses that are
identified together with details of corrective action being undertaken.

A sound system of internal control reduces, but cannot eliminate, the
possibility of poor judgement in decision-making; human error; control
processes being deliberately circumvented by employees and others;
management overriding controls; and the occurrence of unforeseeable
circumstances.

A sound system of internal control therefore provides reasonable, but not
absolute, assurance that a company will not be hindered in achieving its
business objectives, or in the orderly and legitimate conduct of its
business, by circumstances which may reasonably be foreseen. A system
of internal control cannot, however, provide protection with certainty
against a company failing to meet its business objectives or all material
errors, losses, fraud, or breaches of laws or regulations.

33
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

REVIEWING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL

Responsibilities

25.

26.

Reviewing the effectiveness of internal control is an essential part of the
board’s responsibilities. The board will need to form its own view on
effectiveness after due and careful enquiry based on the information and
assurances provided to it. Management is accountable to the board for
monitoring the system of internal control and for providing assurance to
the board that it has done so.

The role of board committees in the review process, including that of the
audit committee, is for the board to decide and will depend upon factors
such as the size and composition of the board; the scale, diversity and
complexity of the company’s operations; and the nature of the significant
risks that the company faces. To the extent that designated board
committees carry out, on behalf of the board, tasks that are attributed in
this guidance document to the board, the results of the relevant
committees’ work should be reported to, and considered by, the board.
The board takes responsibility for the disclosures on internal control in the
annual report and accounts.

The process for reviewing effectiveness

27.

28.

29.

Effective monitoring on a continuous basis is an essential component of a
sound system of internal control. The board cannot, however, rely solely
on the embedded monitoring processes within the company to discharge
its responsibilities. It should regularly receive and review reports on
internal control. In addition, the board should undertake an annual
assessment for the purposes of making its public statement on internal
control to ensure that it has considered all significant aspects of internal
control for the company for the year under review and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and accounts.

The reference to ‘all controls’ in Code Provision D.2.1 should not be taken
to mean that the effectiveness of every internal control (including controls
designed to manage immaterial risks) should be subject to review by the
board. Rather it means that, for the purposes of this guidance, internal
controls considered by the board should include all types of controls
including those of an operational and compliance nature, as well as
internal financial controls.

The board should define the process to be adopted for its review of the
effectiveness of internal control. This should encompass both the scope
and frequency of the reports it receives and reviews during the year, and
also the process for its annual assessment, such that it will be provided

34
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

30.

31.

32.

33.

with sound, appropriately documented, support for its statement on
internal control in the company’s annual report and accounts.

The reports from management to the board should, in relation to the areas
covered by them, provide a balanced assessment of the significant risks
and the effectiveness of the system of internal control in managing those
risks. Any significant control failings or weaknesses identified should be
discussed in the reports, including the impact that they have had, could
have had, or may have, on the company and the actions being taken to
rectify them. It is essential that there be openness of communication by
management with the board on matters relating to risk and control.

When reviewing reports during the year, the board should:

e consider what are the significant risks and assess how they have
been identified, evaluated and managed;

e assess the effectiveness of the related system of internal control in
managing the significant risks, having regard, in particular, to any
significant failings or weaknesses in internal control that have been
reported;

e consider whether necessary actions are being taken promptly to
remedy any significant failings or weaknesses; and

e consider whether the findings indicate a need for more extensive
monitoring of the system of internal control.

Additionally, the board should undertake an annual assessment for the
purpose of making its public statement on internal control. The
assessment should consider issues dealt with in reports reviewed by it
during the year together with any additional information necessary to
ensure that the board has taken account of all significant aspects of
internal control for the company for the year under review and up to the
date of approval of the annual report and accounts.

The board’s annual assessment should, in particular, consider:

e the changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and
extent of significant risks, and the company’s ability to respond to
changes in its business and the external environment;

e the scope and quality of management's ongoing monitoring of risks
and of the system of internal control, and, where applicable, the work
of its internal audit function and other providers of assurance;

e the extent and frequency of the communication of the results of the
monitoring to the board (or board committee(s)) which enables it to
build up a cumulative assessment of the state of control in the
company and the effectiveness with which risk is being managed;

35
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

34.

e the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have
been identified at any time during the period and the extent to which
they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that
have had, could have had, or may in the future have, a material
impact on the company’s financial performance or condition; and

e the effectiveness of the company’s public reporting processes.

Should the board become aware at any time of a significant failing or
weakness in internal control, it should determine how the failing or
weakness arose and re-assess the effectiveness of management's
ongoing processes for designing, operating and monitoring the system of
internal control.

THE BOARD’S STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL

35.

36.

37.

38.

39.

In its narrative statement of how the company has applied Code principle
D.2, the board should, as a minimum, disclose that there is an ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks
faced by the company, that it has been in place for the year under review
and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that it is
regularly reviewed by the board and accords with the guidance in this
document.

The board may wish to provide additional information in the annual report
and accounts to assist understanding of the company’s risk management
processes and system of internal control.

The disclosures relating to the application of principle D.2 should include
an acknowledgement by the board that it is responsible for the company’s
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. It should also
explain that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or
loss.

In relation to Code provision D.2.1, the board should summarise the
process it (where applicable, through its committees) has applied in
reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control. It should also
disclose the process it has applied to deal with material internal control
aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the annual report and
accounts.

Where a board cannot make one or more of the disclosures in paragraphs
35 and 38, it should state this fact and provide an explanation. The Listing
Rules require the board to disclose if it has failed to conduct a review of
the effectiveness of the company’s system of internal control.

36
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

40.

41.

The board should ensure that its disclosures provide meaningful, high-
level information and do not give a misleading impression.

Where material joint ventures and associates have not been dealt with as
part of the group for the purposes of applying this guidance, this should
be disclosed.

INTERNAL AUDIT

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

Provision D.2.2 of the Code states that companies which do not have an
internal audit function should from time to time review the need for one.

The need for an internal audit function will vary depending on company-
specific factors including the scale, diversity and complexity of the
company’s activities and the number of employees, as well as cost/benefit
considerations. Senior management and the board may desire objective
assurance and advice on risk and control. An adequately resourced
internal audit function (or its equivalent where, for example, a third party
is contracted to perform some or all of the work concerned) may provide
such assurance and advice. There may be other functions within the
company that also provide assurance and advice covering specialist
areas such as health and safety, regulatory and legal compliance and
environmental issues.

In the absence of an internal audit function, management needs to apply
other monitoring processes in order to assure itself and the board that the
system of internal control is functioning as intended. In these
circumstances, the board will need to assess whether such processes
provide sufficient and objective assurance.

When undertaking its assessment of the need for an internal audit
function, the board should also consider whether there are any trends or
current factors relevant to the company’s activities, markets or other
aspects of its external environment, that have increased, or are expected
to increase, the risks faced by the company. Such an increase in risk may
also arise from internal factors such as organisational restructuring or
from changes in reporting processes or underlying information systems.
Other matters to be taken into account may include adverse trends
evident from the monitoring of internal control systems or an increased
incidence of unexpected occurrences.

The board of a company that does not have an internal audit function
should assess the need for such a function annually having regard to the
factors referred to in paragraphs 43 and 45 above. Where there is an
internal audit function, the board should annually review its scope of work,
authority and resources, again having regard to those factors.

37
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

47. _ If the company does not have an internal audit function and the board has
not reviewed the need for one, the Listing Rules require the board to
disclose these facts.

38
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

APPENDIX
Assessing the effectiveness of the company’s risk and control processes

Some questions which the board may wish to consider and discuss with
management when regularly reviewing reports on internal control and carrying
out its annual assessment are set out below. The questions are not intended to
be exhaustive and will need to be tailored to the particular circumstances of the
company.

This Appendix should be read in conjunction with the guidance set out in this
document.

1. Risk assessment

e I Does the company have clear objectives and have they been
communicated so as to provide effective direction to employees on
risk assessment and control issues? For example, do objectives and
related plans include measurable performance targets and
indicators?

e Are the significant internal and external operational, financial,
compliance and other risks identified and assessed on an ongoing
basis? (Significant risks may, for example, include those related to
market, credit, liquidity, technological, legal, health, safety and
environmental, reputation, and business probity issues.)

e Is there a clear understanding by management and others within the
company of what risks are acceptable to the board?

2. Control environment and control activities

e Does the board have clear strategies for dealing with the significant
risks that have been identified? Is there a policy on how to manage
these risks?

e Do the company’s culture, code of conduct, human resource policies
and performance reward systems support the business objectives
and risk management and internal control system?

e Does senior management demonstrate, through its actions as well
as its policies, the necessary commitment to competence, integrity
and fostering a climate of trust within the company?

e Are authority, responsibility and accountability defined clearly such
that decisions are made and actions taken by the appropriate
people? Are the decisions and actions of different parts of the
company appropriately co-ordinated?

e Does the company communicate to its employees what is expected
of them and the scope of their freedom to act? This may apply to
areas such as customer relations; service levels for both internal

39
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

and outsourced activities; health, safety and environmental
protection; security of tangible and intangible assets; business
continuity issues; expenditure matters; accounting; and financial and
other reporting.

Do people in the company (and in its providers of outsourced
services) have the knowledge, skills and tools to support the
achievement of the company’s objectives and to manage effectively
risks to their achievement?

How are processes/controls adjusted to reflect new or changing
risks, or operational deficiencies?

3. Information and communication

Do management and the board receive timely, relevant and reliable
reports on progress against business objectives and the related
risks that provide them with the information, from inside and outside
the company, needed for decision-making and management review
purposes? This could include performance reports and indicators of
change, together with qualitative information such as on customer
satisfaction, employee attitudes etc.

Are information needs and related information systems reassessed
as objectives and related risks change or as reporting deficiencies
are identified?

Are periodic reporting procedures, including half-yearly and annual
reporting, effective in communicating a balanced and
understandable account of the company’s position and prospects?

Are there established channels of communication for individuals to
report suspected breaches of laws or regulations or other
improprieties?

4. Monitoring

Are there ongoing processes embedded within the company’s
overall business operations, and addressed by senior management,
which monitor the effective application of the policies, processes and
activities related to internal control and risk management? (Such
processes may include control self-assessment, confirmation by
personnel of compliance with policies and codes of conduct, internal
audit reviews or other management reviews).

40
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

September 1999 The Turnbull Guidance

e Do these processes monitor the company’s ability to re-evaluate
risks and adjust controls effectively in response to changes in its
objectives, its business, and its external environment?

e Are there effective follow-up procedures to ensure that appropriate
change or action occurs in response to changes in risk and control
assessments?

e Is there appropriate communication to the board (or board
committees) on the effectiveness of the ongoing monitoring
processes on risk and control matters? This should include reporting
any significant failings or weaknesses on a timely basis.

e Are there specific arrangements for management monitoring and
reporting to the board on risk and control matters of particular
importance? These could include, for example, actual or suspected
fraud and other illegal or irregular acts, or matters that could
adversely affect the company's reputation or financial position?

41
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

GUIDANCE ON AUDIT COMMITTEES

(The Smith Guidance)

CONTENTS

Introduction

Paragraph

1.1-1.12

Establishment and role of the audit committee; membership,

procedures and resources

- Establishment and role

- Membership and appointment

- Meetings of the audit committee
- Resources

- Remuneration

- Skills, experience and training

Relationship with the board

2.1-2.20

2.1-2.2
2.3-2.6
2.7-2.11
2.12-2.15
2.16
2.17-2.20

3.1-3.5

Role and responsibilities

4.1-4.35

- Financial reporting

- Internal financial controls and risk management systems
- Whistleblowing

- The internal audit process

- The external audit process

Communication with shareholders

4.1-4.4
45-4.7
4.8
4.9-4.12
4.13-4.35

5.1-5.3

Note

The following guidance is closely based on Sir Robert Smith's proposed guidance published in
January 2003 (see footnote 2, page 1), modified for consistency with the final revised Code.

43
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

AUDIT COMMITTEES - COMBINED CODE GUIDANCE

1

1.1.

1.2.

1.3.

1.4.

1.5.

1.6.

1.7.

Introduction

This guidance is designed to assist company boards in making suitable
arrangements for their audit committees, and to assist directors serving on
audit committees in carrying out their role.

The paragraphs in bold are taken from the Combined Code (Section C3).
Listed companies that do not comply with those provisions should include
an explanation as to why they have not complied in the statement required
by the Listing Rules.

Best practice requires that every board should consider in detail what
arrangements for its audit committee are best suited for its particular
circumstances. Audit committee arrangements need to be proportionate
to the task, and will vary according to the size, complexity and risk profile
of the company.

While all directors have a duty to act in the interests of the company the
audit committee has a particular role, acting independently from the
executive, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly
protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.

Nothing in the guidance should be interpreted as a departure from the
principle of the unitary board. All directors remain equally responsible for
the company’s affairs as a matter of law. The audit committee, like other
committees to which particular responsibilities are delegated (such as the
remuneration committee), remains a committee of the board. Any
disagreement within the board, including disagreement between the audit
committee’s members and the rest of the board, should be resolved at
board level.

The Code provides that a separate section of the annual report should
describe the work of the committee. This deliberately puts the spotlight on
the audit committee and gives it an authority that it might otherwise lack.
This is not incompatible with the principle of the unitary board.

The guidance contains recommendations about the conduct of the audit
committee’s relationship with the board, with the executive management
and with internal and external auditors. However, the most important
features of this relationship cannot be drafted as guidance or put into a
code of practice: a frank, open working relationship and a high level of
mutual respect are essential, particularly between the audit committee
chairman and the board chairman, the chief executive and the finance
director. The audit committee must be prepared to take a robust stand,
and all parties must be prepared to make information freely available to

45
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

1.8.

1.9.

the audit committee, to listen to their views and to talk through the issues
openly.

In particular, the management is under an obligation to ensure the audit
committee is kept properly informed, and should take the initiative in
supplying information rather than waiting to be asked. The board should
make it clear to all directors and staff that they must cooperate with the
audit committee and provide it with any information it requires. In addition,
executive board members will have regard to their common law duty to
provide all directors, including those on the audit committee, with all the
information they need to discharge their responsibilities as directors of the
company.

Many of the core functions of audit committees set out in this guidance are
expressed in terms of ‘oversight’, ‘assessment’ and ‘review’ of a particular
function. It is not the duty of audit committees to carry out functions that
properly belong to others, such as the company’s management in the
preparation of the financial statements or the auditors in the planning or
conducting of audits. To do so could undermine the responsibility of
management and auditors. Audit committees should, for example, satisfy
themselves that there is a proper system and allocation of responsibilities
for the day-to-day monitoring of financial controls but they should not seek
to do the monitoring themselves.

. However, the high-level oversight function may lead to detailed work. The

audit committee must intervene if there are signs that something may be
seriously amiss. For example, if the audit committee is uneasy about the
explanations of management and auditors about a particular financial
reporting policy decision, there may be no alternative but to grapple with
the detail and perhaps to seek independent advice.

. Under this guidance, audit committees have wide-ranging, time-

consuming and sometimes intensive work to do. Companies need to
make the necessary resources available. This includes suitable payment
for the members of audit committees themselves. They — and particularly
the audit committee chairman - bear a significant responsibility and they
need to commit a significant extra amount of time to the job. Companies
also need to make provision for induction and training for new audit
committee members and continuing training as may be required.

. This guidance applies to all companies to which the Code applies — i.e.

UK listed companies. For groups, it will usually be necessary for the audit
committee of the parent company to review issues that relate to particular
subsidiaries or activities carried on by the group. Consequently, the board
of a UK-listed parent company should ensure that there is adequate
cooperation within the group (and with internal and external auditors of
individual companies within the group) to enable the parent company
audit committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.

46
duly 2003

RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

The Smith Guidance

2 Establishment and role of the audit committee; membership,
procedures and resources

Establishment and role

2.1. The board should establish an audit committee of at least three, or
in the case of smaller companies two, members.

2.2 The main role and responsibilities of the audit committee should be

set

out in written terms of reference and should include:

to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the
company and any formal announcements relating to the
company’s financial performance, reviewing significant
financial reporting judgements contained in them;

to review the company’s internal financial controls and, unless
expressly addressed by a separate board risk committee
composed of independent directors or by the board itself, the
company’s internal control and risk management systems;

to monitor and review the effectiveness of the company’s
internal audit function;

to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation
to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor;

to review and monitor the external auditor’s independence and
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking
into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory
requirements;

to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the
external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into
account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of
non-audit services by the external audit firm;

and to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of
which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and
making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.

47
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

Membership and appointment

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

All members of the committee should be independent non-executive
directors. The board should satisfy itself that at least one member
of the audit committee has recent and relevant financial experience.

The chairman of the company should not be an audit committee member.

Appointments to the audit committee should be made by the board on the
recommendation of the nomination committee (where there is one), in
consultation with the audit committee chairman.

Appointments should be for a period of up to three years, extendable by
no more than two additional three-year periods, so long as members
continue to be independent.

Meetings of the audit committee

2.7

2.8

2.9

2.10

It is for the audit committee chairman, in consultation with the company
secretary, to decide the frequency and timing of its meetings. There
should be as many meetings as the audit committee’s role and
responsibilities require. It is recommended there should be not fewer than
three meetings during the year, held to coincide with key dates within the
financial reporting and audit cycle’. However, most audit committee
chairmen will wish to call more frequent meetings.

No one other than the audit committee's chairman and members is
entitled to be present at a meeting of the audit committee. It is for the
audit committee to decide if non-members should attend for a particular
meeting or a particular agenda item. It is to be expected that the external
audit lead partner will be invited regularly to attend meetings as well as the
finance director. Others may be invited to attend.

Sufficient time should be allowed to enable the audit committee to
undertake as full a discussion as may be required. A sufficient interval
should be allowed between audit committee meetings and main board
meetings to allow any work arising from the audit committee meeting to be
carried out and reported to the board as appropriate.

The audit committee should, at least annually, meet the external and
internal auditors, without management, to discuss matters relating to its
remit and any issues arising from the audit.

For example, when the audit plans (internal and external) are available for review and when interim

statements, preliminary announcements and the full annual report are near completion.

48
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

2.11

Formal meetings of the audit committee are the heart of its work.
However, they will rarely be sufficient. It is expected that the audit
committee chairman, and to a lesser extent the other members, will wish
to keep in touch on a continuing basis with the key people involved in the
company’s governance, including the board chairman, the chief
executive, the finance director, the external audit lead partner and the
head of internal audit.

Resources

2.12

2.13

2.14

2.15

The audit committee should be provided with sufficient resources to
undertake its duties.

The audit committee should have access to the services of the company
secretariat on all audit committee matters including: assisting the
chairman in planning the audit committee’s work, drawing up meeting
agendas, maintenance of minutes, drafting of material about its activities
for the annual report, collection and distribution of information and
provision of any necessary practical support.

The company secretary should ensure that the audit committee receives
information and papers in a timely manner to enable full and proper
consideration to be given to the issues.

The board should make funds available to the audit committee to enable
it to take independent legal, accounting or other advice when the audit
committee reasonably believes it necessary to do so.

Remuneration

2.16

In addition to the remuneration paid to all non-executive directors, each
company should consider the further remuneration that should be paid to
members of the audit committee to recompense them for the additional
responsibilities of membership. Consideration should be given to the time
members are required to give to audit committee business, the skills they
bring to bear and the onerous duties they take on, as well as the value of
their work to the company. The level of remuneration paid to the members
of the audit committee should take into account the level of fees paid to
other members of the board. The chairman’s responsibilities and time
demands will generally be heavier than the other members of the audit
committee and this should be reflected in his or her remuneration.

49
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

Skills, experience and training

2.17

2.18

2.19

2.20

It is desirable that the committee member whom the board considers to
have recent and relevant financial experience should have a professional
qualification from one of the professional accountancy bodies. The need
for a degree of financial literacy among the other members will vary
according to the nature of the company, but experience of corporate
financial matters will normally be required. The availability of appropriate
financial expertise will be particularly important where the company’s
activities involve specialised financial activities.

The company should provide an induction programme for new audit
committee members. This should cover the role of the audit committee,
including its terms of reference and expected time commitment by
members; and an overview of the company’s business, identifying the
main business and financial dynamics and risks. It could also include
meeting some of the company staff.

Training should also be provided to members of the audit committee on
an ongoing and timely basis and should include an understanding of the
principles of and developments in financial reporting and related company
law. In appropriate cases, it may also include, for example, understanding
financial statements, applicable accounting standards and recommended
practice; the regulatory framework for the company’s business; the role of
internal and external auditing and risk management.

The induction programme and ongoing training may take various forms,
including attendance at formal courses and conferences, internal
company talks and seminars, and briefings by external advisers.

3. Relationship with the board

3.1

3.2

3.3

3.4

The role of the audit committee is for the board to decide and to the extent
that the audit committee undertakes tasks on behalf of the board, the
results should be reported to, and considered by, the board. In doing so
it should identify any matters in respect of which it considers that action or
improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be
taken.

The terms of reference should be tailored to the particular circumstances
of the company.

The audit committee should review annually its terms of reference and its
own effectiveness and recommend any necessary changes to the board.

The board should review the audit committee’s effectiveness annually.

50
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

3.5

Where there is disagreement between the audit committee and the board,
adequate time should be made available for discussion of the issue with
a view to resolving the disagreement. Where any such disagreements
cannot be resolved, the audit committee should have the right to report
the issue to the shareholders as part of the report on its activities in the
annual report.

4 Role and responsibilities

Financial reporting

441

4.2

4.3

4.4

The audit committee should review the significant financial reporting
issues and judgements made in connection with the preparation of the
company’s financial statements, interim reports, preliminary
announcements and related formal statements.

It is management's, not the audit committee’s, responsibility to prepare
complete and accurate financial statements and disclosures in
accordance with financial reporting standards and applicable rules and
regulations. However the audit committee should consider significant
accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates
and judgements. The management should inform the audit committee of
the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions where
the accounting treatment is open to different approaches. Taking into
account the external auditor’s view, the audit committee should consider
whether the company has adopted appropriate accounting policies and,
where necessary, made appropriate estimates and judgements. The audit
committee should review the clarity and completeness of disclosures in
the financial statements and consider whether the disclosures made are
set properly in context.

Where, following its review, the audit committee is not satisfied with any
aspect of the proposed financial reporting by the company, it shall report
its views to the board.

The audit committee should review related information presented with the
financial statements, including the operating and financial review, and
corporate governance statements relating to the audit and to risk
management. Similarly, where board approval is required for other
statements containing financial information (for example, summary
financial statements, significant financial returns to regulators and release
of price sensitive information), whenever practicable (without being
inconsistent with any requirement for prompt reporting under the Listing
Rules) the audit committee should review such statements first.

51
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

Internal controls and risk management systems

4.5

4.6

47

The audit committee should review the company’s internal financial
controls (that is, the systems established to identify, assess, manage and
monitor financial risks); and unless expressly addressed by a separate
board risk committee comprised of independent directors or by the board
itself, the company’s internal control and risk management systems.

The company’s management is responsible for the identification,
assessment, management and monitoring of risk, for developing,
operating and monitoring the system of internal control and for providing
assurance to the board that it has done so. Except where the board ora
risk committee is expressly responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of
the internal control and risk management systems, the audit committee
should receive reports from management on the effectiveness of the
systems they have established and the conclusions of any testing carried
out by internal and external auditors.

Except to the extent that this is expressly dealt with by the board or risk
committee, the audit committee should review and approve the
statements included in the annual report in relation to internal control and
the management of risk.

Whistleblowing

48

The audit committee should review arrangements by which staff of
the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters. The
audit committee’s objective should be to ensure that arrangements
are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of
such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.

The internal audit process

4.9

4.10

The audit committee should monitor and review the effectiveness of
the company’s internal audit function. Where there is no internal
audit function, the audit committee should consider annually
whether there is a need for an internal audit function and make a
recommendation to the board, and the reasons for the absence of
such a function should be explained in the relevant section of the
annual report.

The audit committee should review and approve the internal audit
function’s remit, having regard to the complementary roles of the internal
and external audit functions. The audit committee should ensure that the
function has the necessary resources and access to information to enable

52
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

4.11

4.12

it to fulfil its mandate, and is equipped to perform in accordance with
appropriate professional standards for internal auditors’.

The audit committee should approve the appointment or termination of
appointment of the head of internal audit.

In its review of the work of the internal audit function, the audit committee
should, inter alia:

e ensure that the internal auditor has direct access to the board
chairman and to the audit committee and is accountable to the audit
committee;

e review and assess the annual internal audit work plan;

e receive a report on the results of the internal auditors’ work on a
periodic basis;

e review and monitor management's responsiveness to the internal
auditor's findings and recommendations;

e meet with the head of internal audit at least once a year without the
presence of management; and

e monitor and assess the role and effectiveness of the internal audit
function in the overall context of the company’s risk management
system.

The external audit process

4.13

The audit committee is the body responsible for overseeing the
company’s relations with the external auditor.

Appointment

4.14

4.15

The audit committee should have primary responsibility for making
a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and removal
of the external auditors. If the board does not accept the audit
committee’s recommendation, it should include in the annual report,
and in any papers recommending appointment or reappointment, a
statement from the audit committee explaining its recommendation
and should set out reasons why the board has taken a different
position.

The audit committee’s recommendation to the board should be based on
the assessments referred to below. If the audit committee recommends

* Further guidance can be found in the Institute of Internal Auditors’ Code of Ethics and the International
Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing Standards.

53
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

4.16

4.17

considering the selection of possible new appointees as external auditors,
it should oversee the selection process.

The audit committee should assess annually the qualification, expertise
and resources, and independence (see below) of the external auditors
and the effectiveness of the audit process. The assessment should cover
all aspects of the audit service provided by the audit firm, and include
obtaining a report on the audit firm’s own internal quality control
procedures.

If the external auditor resigns, the audit committee should investigate the
issues giving rise to such resignation and consider whether any action is
required.

Terms and Remuneration

4.18

4.19

4.20

The audit committee should approve the terms of engagement and the
remuneration to be paid to the external auditor in respect of audit services
provided.

The audit committee should review and agree the engagement letter
issued by the external auditor at the start of each audit, ensuring that it
has been updated to reflect changes in circumstances arising since the
previous year. The scope of the external audit should be reviewed by the
audit committee with the auditor. If the audit committee is not satisfied as
to its adequacy it should arrange for additional work to be undertaken.

The audit committee should satisfy itself that the level of fee payable in
respect of the audit services provided is appropriate and that an effective
audit can be conducted for such a fee.

Independence, including the provision of non-audit services

4.21

4.22

The audit committee should have procedures to ensure the independence
and objectivity of the external auditor annually, taking into consideration
relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements. This assessment
should involve a consideration of all relationships between the company
and the audit firm (including the provision of non-audit services). The
audit committee should consider whether, taken as a whole and having
regard to the views, as appropriate, of the external auditor, management
and internal audit, those relationships appear to impair the auditor’s
judgement or independence.

The audit committee should seek reassurance that the auditors and their

staff have no family, financial, employment, investment or business
relationship with the company (other than in the normal course of

54
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

4.23

4.24

4.25

4.26

business). The audit committee should seek from the audit firm, on an
annual basis, information about policies and processes for maintaining
independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements,
including current requirements regarding the rotation of audit partners and
staff.

The audit committee should agree with the board the company’s policy for
the employment of former employees of the external auditor, paying
particular attention to the policy regarding former employees of the audit
firm who were part of the audit team and moved directly to the company.
This should be drafted taking into account the relevant ethical guidelines
governing the accounting profession. The audit committee should monitor
application of the policy, including the number of former employees of the
external auditor currently employed in senior positions in the company,
and consider whether in the light of this there has been any impairment,
or appearance of impairment, of the auditor's judgement or independence
in respect of the audit.

The audit committee should monitor the external audit firm’s compliance
with applicable United Kingdom ethical guidance relating to the rotation of
audit partners, the level of fees that the company pays in proportion to the
overall fee income of the firm, office and partner, and other related
regulatory requirements.

The audit committee should develop and recommend to the board the
company’s policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the
auditor. The audit committee’s objective should be to ensure that the
provision of such services does not impair the external auditor's
independence or objectivity. In this context, the audit committee should
consider:

e whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make it a suitable
supplier of the non audit service;

e whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no
threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit
resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor;

e the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the
fee levels individually and in aggregate relative to the audit fee; and

e the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals
performing the audit.

The audit committee should set and apply a formal policy specifying the
types of non-audit work:

e from which the external auditors are excluded;

55
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

4.27

4.28

4.29

e for which the external auditors can be engaged without referral to
the audit committee; and

e for which a case-by-case decision is necessary.

In addition, the policy may set fee limits generally or for particular classes
of work.

In the third category, if it is not practicable to give approval to individual
items in advance, it may be appropriate to give a general pre-approval for
certain classes for work, subject to a fee limit determined by the audit
committee and ratified by the board. The subsequent provision of any
service by the auditor should be ratified at the next meeting of the audit
committee.

In determining the policy, the audit committee should take into account
relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by
the external audit firm, and in principle should not agree to the auditor
providing a service if, having regard to the ethical guidance, the result is
that:

e the external auditor audits its own firm’s work;

e the external auditor makes management decisions for the company;
e a mutuality of interest is created; or

e the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the company.

The audit committee should satisfy itself that any safeguards required by
ethical guidance are implemented.

The annual report should explain to shareholders how, if the auditor
provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity and independence is
safeguarded.

Annual audit cycle

4.30

4.31

4.32

At the start of each annual audit cycle, the audit committee should ensure
that appropriate plans are in place for the audit.

The audit committee should consider whether the auditor’s overall work
plan, including planned levels of materiality, and proposed resources to
execute the audit plan appears consistent with the scope of the audit
engagement, having regard also to the seniority, expertise and experience
of the audit team.

The audit committee should review, with the external auditors, the findings
of their work. In the course of its review, the audit committee should:

56
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

e discuss with the external auditor major issues that arose during the
course of the audit and have subsequently been resolved and those
issues that have been left unresolved;

e review key accounting and audit judgements; and

e review levels of errors identified during the audit, obtaining
explanations from management and, where necessary the external
auditors, as to why certain errors might remain unadjusted.

4.33 The audit committee should also review the audit representation letters
before signature by management and give particular consideration to
matters where representation has been requested that relate to non-
standard issues*. The audit committee should consider whether the
information provided is complete and appropriate based on its own
knowledge.

4.34 As part of the ongoing monitoring process, the audit committee should
review the management letter (or equivalent). The audit committee
should review and monitor management's responsiveness to the external
auditor’s findings and recommendations.

4.35 At the end of the annual audit cycle, the audit committee should assess
the effectiveness of the audit process. In the course of doing so, the audit
committee should:

e review whether the auditor has met the agreed audit plan and
understand the reasons for any changes, including changes in
perceived audit risks and the work undertaken by the external
auditors to address those risks;

e consider the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements identified and
in responding to questions from the audit committees, and in their
commentary where appropriate on the systems of internal control;

e obtain feedback about the conduct of the audit from key people
involved, e.g. the finance director and the head of internal audit; and

e review and monitor the content of the external auditor’s
management letter, in order to assess whether it is based on a good
understanding of the company’s business and establish whether
recommendations have been acted upon and, if not, the reasons
why they have not been acted upon.

* Further guidance can by found in the Auditing Practices Board’s Statement of Auditing Standard 440
“Management Representations”.

57
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Smith Guidance

5 Communication with shareholders

5.1. The terms of reference of the audit committee, including its role and the
authority delegated to it by the board, should be made available. A
separate section in the annual report should describe the work of the
committee in discharging those responsibilities.

5.2 The audit committee section should include, inter alia:

e asummary of the role of the audit committee;

e the names and qualifications of all members of the audit committee
during the period;

e the number of audit committee meetings;

e  areport on the way the audit committee has discharged its
responsibilities; and

e the explanation provided for in paragraph 4.29 above.
5.3 The chairman of the audit committee should be present at the AGM to
answer questions, through the chairman of the board, on the report on the

audit committee’s activities and matters within the scope of audit
committee’s responsibilities.

57
SUGGESTIONS FOR GOOD PRACTICE
FROM THE HIGGS REPORT

CONTENTS

Guidance for the chairman

Guidance for non-executive directors

Summary of the principal duties of the remuneration committee
Summary of the principal duties of the nomination committee
Pre-appointment due diligence checklist for new board members
Sample letter of non-executive director appointment

Induction checklist

Performance evaluation checklist

59

RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

GUIDANCE ON THE ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN

The chairman is pivotal in creating the conditions for overall board and individual
director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom. Specifically, it is
the responsibility of the chairman to:

e run the board and set its agenda. The agenda should take full
account of the issues and the concerns of all board members.
Agendas should be forward looking and concentrate on strategic
matters rather than formulaic approvals of proposals which can be
the subject of appropriate delegated powers to management;

e ensure that the members of the board receive accurate, timely and
clear information, in particular about the company's performance, to
enable the board to take sound decisions, monitor effectively and
provide advice to promote the success of the company;

e ensure effective communication with shareholders and ensure that
the members of the board develop an understanding of the views of
the major investors;

e manage the board to ensure that sufficient time is allowed for
discussion of complex or contentious issues, where appropriate
arranging for informal meetings beforehand to enable thorough
preparation for the board discussion. It is particularly important that
non-executive directors have sufficient time to consider critical
issues and are not faced with unrealistic deadlines for decision-
making;

e take the lead in providing a properly constructed induction
programme for new directors that is comprehensive, formal and
tailored, facilitated by the company secretary;

e take the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of
individual directors, with the company secretary having a key role in
facilitating provision. It is the responsibility of the chairman to
address the development needs of the board as a whole with a view
to enhancing its overall effectiveness as a team;

e ensure that the performance of individuals and of the board as a
whole and its committees is evaluated at least once a year; and

e encourage active engagement by all the members of the board.

The effective chairman:

e upholds the highest standards of integrity and probity;

e sets the agenda, style and tone of board discussions to promote
effective decision-making and constructive debate;

61
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

e promotes effective relationships and open communication, both
inside and outside the boardroom, between non-executive directors
and executive team;

e builds an effective and complementary board, initiating change and
planning succession in board appointments, subject to board and
shareholders’ approval;

e promotes the highest standards of corporate governance and seeks
compliance with the provisions of the Code wherever possible;

e ensures clear structure for and the effective running of board
committees;

e ensures effective implementation of board decisions;

e establishes a close relationship of trust with the chief executive,
providing support and advice while respecting executive
responsibility; and

e provides coherent leadership of the company, including representing
the company and understanding the views of shareholders.

62
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

GUIDANCE ON THE ROLE OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

As members of the unitary board, all directors are required to:

Provide entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a
framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be
assessed and managed;

Set the company’s strategic aims, ensure that the necessary
financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet
its objectives, and review management performance; and

Set the company’s values and standards and ensure that its
obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.

In addition to these requirements for all directors, the role of the non-executive
director has the following key elements:

Strategy. Non-executive directors should constructively challenge
and help develop proposals on strategy.

Performance. Non-executive directors should scrutinise the
performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.

Risk. Non-executive directors should satisfy themselves on the
integrity of financial information and that financial controls and
systems of risk management are robust and defensible.

People. Non-executive directors are responsible for determining
appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors, and have
a prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing,
executive directors and in succession planning.

Non-executive directors should constantly seek to establish and maintain
confidence in the conduct of the company. They should be independent in
judgement and have an enquiring mind. To be effective, non-executive directors
need to build a recognition by executives of their contribution in order to promote
openness and trust.

To be effective, non-executive directors need to be well-informed about the
company and the external environment in which it operates, with a strong
command of issues relevant to the business. A non-executive director should
insist on a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction. An effective induction
need not be restricted to the boardroom, so consideration should be given to
visiting sites and meeting senior and middle management. Once in post, an
effective non-executive director should seek continually to develop and refresh
their knowledge and skills to ensure that their contribution to the board remains
informed and relevant.

63
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

Best practice dictates that an effective non-executive director will ensure that
information is provided sufficiently in advance of meetings to enable thorough
consideration of the issues facing the board. The non-executive should insist
that information is sufficient, accurate, clear and timely.

An element of the role of the non-executive director is to understand the views
of major investors both directly and through the chairman and the senior
independent director.

The effective non-executive director:

e upholds the highest ethical standards of integrity and probity;

e supports executives in their leadership of the business while
monitoring their conduct;

e questions intelligently, debates constructively, challenges rigorously
and decides dispassionately;

e listens sensitively to the views of others, inside and outside the
board;

e gains the trust and respect of other board members; and

e promotes the highest standards of corporate governance and seeks
compliance with the provisions of the Code wherever possible.

64
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE

The Code provides that the remuneration committee should consist exclusively
of independent non-executive directors and should comprise at least three or, in
the case of smaller companies’, two such directors.

Duties
The committee should:

e determine and agree with the board the framework or broad policy
for the remuneration of the chief executive, the chairman of the
company and such other members of the executive management as
it is designated to consider’. At a minimum, the committee should
have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for all
executive directors, the chairman and, to maintain and assure their
independence, the company secretary. The remuneration of non-
executive directors shall be a matter for the chairman and executive
members of the board. No director or manager should be involved
in any decisions as to their own remuneration;

e determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes
operated by the company;

e determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for
each executive director;

e ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments
made, are fair to the individual and the company, that failure is not
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised*;

e within the terms of the agreed policy, determine the total individual
remuneration package of each executive director including, where
appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share options;

e in determining such packages and arrangements, give due regard to
the contents of the Code as well as the UK Listing Authority's Listing
Rules and associated guidance;

e be aware of and advise on any major changes in employee benefit
structures throughout the company or group;

‘ Asmaller company is one that is below the FTSE 350 throughout the year immediately prior to the
reporting year.

2 Some companies require the remuneration committee to consider the packages of all executives at or
above a specified level such as those reporting to a main board director whilst others require the
committee to deal with all packages above a certain figure.

* Remuneration committees should consider reviewing and agreeing a standard form of contract for their
executive directors, and ensuring that new appointees are offered and accept terms within the previously
agreed level.

65
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

e agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the chief
executive and chairman;

e ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration,
including pensions, as set out in the Directors’ Remuneration Report
Regulations 2002 and the Code, are fulfilled;

e be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria,
selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any
remuneration consultants who advise the committee;

e report the frequency of, and attendance by members at,
remuneration committee meetings in the annual reports; and

e make available the committee’s terms of reference. These should
set out the committee’s delegated responsibilities and be reviewed
and, where necessary, updated annually.

This guidance has been compiled with the assistance of ICSA who have
kindly agreed to produce updated guidance on their website www.icsa.org.uk
in the future.

66
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE
NOMINATION COMMITTEE

There should be a nomination committee which should lead the process for
board appointments and make recommendations to the board.

A majority of members of the committee should be independent non-executive
directors. The chairman or an independent non-executive director should chair
the committee, but the chairman should not chair the nomination committee
when it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship.

Duties
The committee should:

e be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the
board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise;

e before making an appointment, evaluate the balance of skills,
knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of this
evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required
for a particular appointment;

e review annually the time required from a non-executive director.
Performance evaluation should be used to assess whether the non-
executive director is spending enough time to fulfil their duties;

e consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds and look
beyond the “usual suspects”;

e give full consideration to succession planning in the course of its
work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the
company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the
board in the future;

e regularly review the structure, size and composition (including the
skills, knowledge and experience) of the board and make
recommendations to the board with regard to any changes;

e keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both
executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued
ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace;

e make a statement in the annual report about its activities; the
process used for appointments and explain if external advice or
open advertising has not been used; the membership of the
committee, number of committee meetings and attendance over the
course of the year;

e make available its terms of reference explaining clearly its role and

67
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

the authority delegated to it by the board; and

e ensure that on appointment to the board, non-executive directors
receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is
expected of them in terms of time commitment, committee service
and involvement outside board meetings.

The committee should make recommendations to the board:

e as regards plans for succession for both executive and non-
executive directors;

e as regards the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the
conclusion of their specified term of office;

e concerning the re-election by shareholders of any director under the
retirement by rotation provisions in the company’s articles of
association;

e concerning any matters relating to the continuation in office of any
director at any time; and

e concerning the appointment of any director to executive or other
office other than to the positions of chairman and chief executive,
the recommendation for which would be considered at a meeting of
the board.

This guidance has been compiled with the assistance of ICSA who have
kindly agreed to produce updated guidance on their website www.icsa.org.uk
in the future.

68
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

PRE-APPOINTMENT DUE DILIGENCE CHECKLIST FOR NEW
BOARD MEMBERS

Why?

Before accepting an appointment a prospective non-executive director should
undertake their own thorough examination of the company to satisfy themselves
that it is an organisation in which they can have faith and in which they will be
well suited to working.

The following questions are not intended to be exhaustive, but are intended to
be a helpful basis of the pre-appointment due diligence process that all non-
executive directors should undertake.

Questions to ask

What is the company’s current financial position and what has its financial track
record been over the last three years?

What are the key dependencies (e.g. regulatory approvals, key licences, etc)?
What record does the company have on corporate governance issues?

If the company is not performing particularly well is there potential to turn it round
and do I have the time, desire and capability to make a positive impact?

What are the exact nature and extent of the company’s business activities?

Who are the current executive and non-executive directors, what is their
background and their record and how long have they served on the board?

What is the size and structure of the board and board committees and what are
the relationships between the chairman and the board, the chief executive and
the management team?

Who owns the company i.e. who are the company’s main shareholders and how
has the profile changed over recent years? What is the company’s attitude
towards, and relationship with, its shareholders?

Is any material litigation presently being undertaken or threatened, either by the
company or against it?

Is the company clear and specific about the qualities, knowledge, skills and
experience that it needs to complement the existing board?

69
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

What insurance cover is available to directors and what is the company’s policy
on indemnifying directors?

Do I have the necessary knowledge, skills, experience and time to make a
positive contribution to the board of this company?

How closely do I match the job specification and how well will I fulfil the board's
expectations?

Is there anything about the nature and extent of the company’s business
activities that would cause me concern both in terms of risk and any personal
ethical considerations?

Am I satisfied that the internal regulation of the company is sound and that I can
operate effectively within its stated corporate governance framework?

Am I satisfied that the size, structure and make-up of the board will enable me
to make an effective contribution?

Would accepting the non-executive directorship put me in a position of having a
conflict of interest?

Sources of information
e Company report and accounts, and/or any listing prospectus, for the
recent years.
e Analyst reports.
e Press reports
e Company web site

e Any Corporate Social Responsibility or Environmental Report issued
by the company.

e Rating agency reports
e Voting services reports

Published material is unlikely to reveal wrong-doing, however a lack of
transparency may be a reason to proceed with caution.

This guidance has been compiled with the assistance of ICSA who have
kindly agreed to produce updated guidance on their website www.icsa.org.uk
in the future.

70
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

SAMPLE LETTER OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
APPOINTMENT

On [date], upon the recommendation of the nomination committee, the board of
[company] (‘the Company’) has appointed you as non-executive director. I am
writing to set out the terms of your appointment. It is agreed that this is a contract
for services and is not a contract of employment.

Appointment

Your appointment will be for an initial term of three years commencing on [date],
unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon
[one month's] written notice. Continuation of your contract of appointment is
contingent on satisfactory performance and re-election at forthcoming AGM’s.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms,
although the board may invite you to serve an additional period.

Time commitment

Overall we anticipate a time commitment of [number] days per month after the
induction phase. This will include attendance at [monthly] board meetings, the
AGM, [one] annual board away day, and [at least one] site visit per year. In
addition, you will be expected to devote appropriate preparation time ahead of
each meeting.

By accepting this appointment, you have confirmed that you are able to allocate
sufficient time to meet the expectations of your role. The agreement of the
chairman should be sought before accepting additional commitments that might
impact on the time you are able to devote to your role as a non-executive
director of the company.

Role

Non-executive directors have the same general legal responsibilities to the
company as any other director. The board as a whole is collectively responsible
for the success of the company. The board:

e Provides entrepreneurial leadership of the company within a
framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be
assessed and managed;

e Sets the company’s strategic aims, ensures that the necessary
financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet
its objectives, and reviews management performance; and

71
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

e Sets the company’s values and standards and ensure that its
obligations to its shareholders and others are understood and met.

All directors must take decisions objectively in the interests of the
company.

In addition to these requirements of all directors, the role of the non-executive
director has the following key elements:

e Strategy. Non-executive directors should constructively challenge
and help develop proposals on strategy;

e Performance. Non-executive directors should scrutinise the
performance of management in meeting agreed goals and
objectives and monitor the reporting of performance;

e Risk. Non-executive directors should satisfy themselves on the
integrity of financial information and that financial controls and
systems of risk management are robust and defensible; and

e People. Non-executive directors are responsible for determining
appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors and have a
prime role in appointing, and where necessary removing, executive
directors and in succession planning.

Fees

You will be paid a fee of £[amount] gross per annum which will be paid monthly
in arrears, [plus [number] ordinary shares of the company per annum, both of]
which will be subject to an annual review by the board. The company will
reimburse you for all reasonable and properly documented expenses you incur
in performing the duties of your office.

Outside interests

It is accepted and acknowledged that you have business interests other than
those of the company and have declared any conflicts that are apparent at
present. In the event that you become aware of any potential conflicts of interest,
these should be disclosed to the chairman and company secretary as soon as
apparent.

[The board of the Company have determined you to be independent according
to provision A.3.1 of the Code.]

Confidentiality

All information acquired during your appointment is confidential to the Company

72
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

and should not be released, either during your appointment or following
termination (by whatever means), to third parties without prior clearance from the
chairman.

Your attention is also drawn to the requirements under both legislation and
regulation as to the disclosure of price sensitive information. Consequently you
should avoid making any statements that might risk a breach of these
requirements without prior clearance from the chairman or company secretary.

Induction

Immediately after appointment, the Company will provide a comprehensive,
formal and tailored induction. This will include the information pack
recommended by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators
(ICSA), available at www.icsa.org.uk. We will also arrange for site visits and
meetings with senior and middle management and the Company's auditors. We
will also offer to major shareholders the opportunity to meet you.

Review process

The performance of individual directors and the whole board and its committees
is evaluated annually. If, in the interim, there are any matters which cause you
concern about your role you should discuss them with the chairman as soon as
is appropriate.

Insurance

The Company has directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and it is intended to
maintain such cover for the full term of your appointment. The current indemnity
limit is £ [amount]; a copy of the policy document is attached.

Independent professional advice

Occasions may arise when you consider that you need professional advice in
the furtherance of your duties as a director. Circumstances may occur when it
will be appropriate for you to seek advice from independent advisors at the
company’s expense. A copy of the board’s agreed procedure under which
directors may obtain such independent advice is attached. The Company will
reimburse the full cost of expenditure incurred in accordance with the attached
policy.

Committees

This letter refers to your appointment as a non-executive director of the

73
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

Company. In the event that you are also asked to serve on one or more of the
board committees this will be covered in a separate communication setting out
the committee(s)’s terms of reference, any specific responsibilities and any
additional fees that may be involved.

This sample appointment letter has been complied with the assistance of
ICSA who have kindly agreed to produce updated guidance on their website
www.icsa.org.uk in the future.

74
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

INDUCTION CHECKLIST

Guidance on Induction

Every company should develop its own comprehensive, formal induction
programme that is tailored to the needs of the company and individual non-
executive directors. The following guidelines might form the core of an induction
programme.

As a general rule, a combination of selected written information together with
presentations and activities such as meetings and site visits will help to give a
new appointee a balanced and real-life overview of the company. Care should
be taken not to overload the new director with too much information. The new
non-executive director should be provided with a list of all the induction
information that is being made available to them so that they may call up items
if required before otherwise provided.

The induction process should:

1. Build an understanding of the nature of the company, its business and
the markets in which it operates. For example, induction should cover:
e the company’s products or services;
e group structure / subsidiaries /joint ventures;

e the company’s constitution, board procedures and matters reserved
for the board;

e summary details of the company’s principal assets, liabilities,
significant contracts and major competitors;

e the company’s major risks and risk management strategy;
e key performance indicators; and
e regulatory constraints.

2. Build a link with the company’s people including;

e meetings with senior management;

e visits to company sites other than the headquarters, to learn about
production or services and meet employees in an informal setting.
It is important, not only for the board to get to know the new non-
executive director, but also for the non-executive director to build a
profile with employees below board level; and

e participating in board strategy development. ‘Awaydays’ enable a
new non-executive director to begin to build working relationships
away from the formal setting of the boardroom.

75
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

3. Build an understanding of the company’s main relationships including
meeting with the auditors and developing a knowledge of in particular:

e who are the major customers;
e who are the major suppliers; and

e who are the major shareholders and what is the shareholder
relations policy — participation in meetings with shareholders can
help give a first hand feel as well as letting shareholders know who
the non-executive directors are.

The induction pack

On appointment, or during the weeks immediately following, a new non-
executive director should be provided with certain basic information to help
ensure their early effective contribution to the company. ICSA has produced,
and undertaken to maintain, on their website www.icsa.org a guidance note
detailing a full list of such material.

76
RLIT0000474

RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION GUIDANCE

Guidance on performance evaluation

The Code provides that the board should undertake a formal and rigorous
annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and
individual directors. Individual evaluation should aim to show whether each
director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to
the role (including commitment of time for board and committee meetings and
any other duties). The chairman should act on the results of the performance
evaluation by recognising the strengths and addressing the weaknesses of the
board and, where appropriate, proposing new members be appointed to the
board or seeking the resignation of directors. The board should state in the
annual report how such performance evaluation has been conducted.

It is the responsibility of the chairman to select an effective process and to act
on its outcome. The use of an external third party to conduct the evaluation will
bring objectivity to the process.

The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should be
responsible for performance evaluation of the chairman, taking into account the
views of executive directors.

The evaluation process will be used constructively as a mechanism to improve
board effectiveness, maximise strengths and tackle weaknesses. The results
of board evaluation should be shared with the board as a whole while the results
of individual assessments should remain confidential between the chairman and
the non-executive director concerned.

The following are some of the questions that should be considered in a
performance evaluation. They are, however, by no means definitive or
exhaustive and companies will wish to tailor the questions to suit their own
needs and circumstances.

The responses to these questions and others should enable boards to assess
how they are performing and to identify how certain elements of their
performance areas might be improved.

Performance evaluation of the board

e How well has the board performed against any performance
objectives that have been set?

e What has been the board's contribution to the testing and
development of strategy?

77
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

January 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

What has been the board's contribution to ensuring robust and
effective risk management?

Is the composition of the board and its committees appropriate, with
the right mix of knowledge and skills to maximise performance in the
light of future strategy? Are inside and outside the board
relationships working effectively?

How has the board responded to any problems or crises that have
emerged and could or should these have been foreseen?

Are the matters specifically reserved for the board the right ones?

How well does the board communicate with the management team,
company employees and others? How effectively does it use
mechanisms such as the AGM and the annual report?

Is the board as a whole up to date with latest developments in the
regulatory environment and the market?

How effective are the board’s committees? [Specific questions on
the performance of each committee should be included such as, for
example, their role, their composition and their interaction with the
board.]

The processes that help underpin the board’s effectiveness should also be
evaluated e.g.:

Is appropriate, timely information of the right length and quality
provided to the board and is management responsive to requests for
clarification or amplification? Does the board provide helpful
feedback to management on its requirements?

Are sufficient board and committee meetings of appropriate length
held to enable proper consideration of issues? _ Is time used
effectively?

Are board procedures conducive to effective performance and
flexible enough to deal with all eventualities?

In addition, there are some specific issues relating to the chairman which should
be included as part of an evaluation of the board’s performance e.g.:

Is the chairman demonstrating effective leadership of the board?

Are relationships and communications with shareholders well
managed?

Are relationships and communications within the board constructive?

Are the processes for setting the agenda working? Do they enable
board members to raise issues and concerns?

78
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

danuary 2003 Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice

e Is the company secretary being used appropriately and to maximum
value?

Performance evaluation of the non-executive director

The chairman and other board members should consider the following issues
and the individual concerned should also be asked to assess themselves. For
each non-executive director:

e How well prepared and informed are they for board meetings and is
their meeting attendance satisfactory?

e Do they demonstrate a willingness to devote time and effort to
understand the company and its business and a readiness to
participate in events outside the boardroom such as site visits?

e What has been the quality and value of their contributions at board
meetings?

e What has been their contribution to development of strategy and to
risk management?

e How successfully have they brought their knowledge and experience
to bear in the consideration of strategy?

e How effectively have they probed to test information and
assumptions? Where necessary, how resolute are they in
maintaining their own views and resisting pressure from others?

e How effectively and proactively have they followed up their areas of
concern?

e How effective and successful are their relationships with fellow
board members, the company secretary and senior management?
Does their performance and behaviour engender mutual trust and
respect within the board?

e How actively and successfully do they refresh their knowledge and
skills and are they up to date with:

e the latest developments in areas such as corporate governance
framework and financial reporting ?

e the industry and market conditions?

e How well do they communicate with fellow board members, senior
management and others, for example shareholders? Are they able
to present their views convincingly yet diplomatically and do they
listen and take on board the views of others?

79
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

USEFUL WEB LINKS

The Higgs Review (2003), together with full details of the research conducted for
the Review and related information:

http://www.dti.gov.uk/cld/non_exec_review

The Cadbury Report (1992), Greenbury Report (1995) and Hampel Report
(1998):

http://www.ecgi.org/codes/country_pages/codes_uk.htm

The Smith Report (2003):
http://www. fre.org.uk/publications/content/ACReport.pdf

The Financial Services Authority's Listing Rules (2002) (see in particular
paragraph 12.43A):

http://www.fsa.gov.uk/pubs/ukla/

Corporate governance codes in other countries:
http://www.ecgi.org/codes/all_codes.htm

Information on the Company Law Review (2001) and the Company Law White
Paper (2002):

http://www.dti.gov.uk/cld/

Copies of guidance produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and
Administrators:

http://www.icsa.org.uk

The Institutional Shareholders’ Committee’s document ‘The Responsibilities of
Institutional Shareholders and Agents — Statement of Principles’ (2002):

http://www.investmentuk.org/press/2002/20021021-01 .pdf

81
RLIT0000474
RLIT0000474

duly 2003 The Combined Code

The Tyson report on the Recruitment and Development of Non-Executive
Directors (2003)

http://www.london.edu/tysonreport/Tyson_Report_June_2003.pdf

The Myners Report on Institutional Investment in the UK (2001):
http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/media//843F0/31 .pdf

The Directors’ Remuneration Report Regulations 2002:

http://www.hmso.gov.uk/si/si2002/20021986.htm

The DTI Consultation document “Rewards for Failure”: Directors’ Remuneration
- Contracts, Performance and Severance’, (2003):

http://www.dti.gov.uk/cld/4864rewards.pdf

The report of the EU High Level Group of Company Law Experts (the “Winter
group”) (2002):

http://europa.eu.int/comm/internal_market/en/company/company/modern/index.
htm

The European Commission’s Action Plan for Company Law and Corporate
Governance (2003):

http://europa.eu.int/eur-lex/en/com/cnc/2003/com2003_0284en01 .pdf

82
