RLIT0000469
RLIT0000469

ai; GOV.UK

Committee on Standards in Public Life

Guidance
The Seven Principles of Public
Life

Published 31 May 1995

Contents
1. The Seven Principles of Public Life
RLIT0000469
RLIT0000469

OGL

© Crown copyright 1995

This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-
licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London
TW9 4DU, or email: psi

Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain
permission from the copyright holders concerned.

This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-7-principles-
of-public-life/the-7-principles-of-public-life-2
RLIT0000469
RLIT0000469

1. The Seven Principles of Public Life

The Seven Principles of Public Life (also known as the Nolan Principles)
apply to anyone who works as a public office-holder. This includes all those
who are elected or appointed to public office, nationally and locally, and all
people appointed to work in the Civil Service, local government, the police,
courts and probation services, non-departmental public bodies (NDPBs),
and in the health, education, social and care services. All public office-
holders are both servants of the public and stewards of public resources.
The principles also apply to all those in other sectors delivering public
services.

1.1 Selflessness

Holders of public office should act solely in terms of the public interest.

1.2 Integrity

Holders of public office must avoid placing themselves under any obligation
to people or organisations that might try inappropriately to influence them in
their work. They should not act or take decisions in order to gain financial or
other material benefits for themselves, their family, or their friends. They
must declare and resolve any interests and relationships.

1.3 Objectivity

Holders of public office must act and take decisions impartially, fairly and on
merit, using the best evidence and without discrimination or bias.

1.4 Accountability

Holders of public office are accountable to the public for their decisions and
actions and must submit themselves to the scrutiny necessary to ensure
this.
RLITO000469
RLIT0000469
1.5 Openness
Holders of public office should act and take decisions in an open and

transparent manner. Information should not be withheld from the public
unless there are clear and lawful reasons for so doing.

1.6 Honesty

Holders of public office should be truthful.

1.7 Leadership

Holders of public office should exhibit these principles in their own
behaviour and treat others with respect. They should actively promote and
robustly support the principles and challenge poor behaviour wherever it
occurs.

OGL as

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
