UKGI00001879
UKGI00001879

SHEX POL TEAM PLANNER

3 Ne
Overall Issues SVS
Will POL Governance and §/7/2013 13/14 STIP and LTIP proposals have been sent across. Some changes in the metrics (eg introduction of
remuneration engagement index and "easy to do business with") for the STIP. NTP target is low (3,000) and also
based on contracts signed. Jo Swinson also keen to see introduction of personal objective around
development of mutualisation. LTIP would pay out in March 2016 so no NTP gateway proposed - query
if appropriate. 12/13 total comp payouts confirmed for PV at £697,723 and for CD at £407,582.
Payments made in end-June salaries.

Discussions re shape and function of RMH post RM sale planned for we 1 July. RMH expected to be
renamed “Postal Services holding Company” and directors are likely to be civil servants. Discussion
with POL re functions it can provide on behalf of RMH (eg accounts, tax) is required.

Tim Strategy Development I 19/7/2013 Next steps to be worked up with POL re. implementation approach. Also need to agree on approach
with BIS Finance to liaising with HMT around funding options and to develop ideas around phasing /
tapering compensation. Discussions with NFSP ongoing. KPMG session with NFSP on hold.

Tim Business Plan & annual I 19/7/2013 Timing of annual report publication to be aligned with earlier of RM annual report and POL funding
report announcement.

Tim Financial monitoring 19/7/2013 Seeking further clarification on P2 numbers around changes in presentation.

Tim State Aid 19/7/2013 Follow up to Commission after recent call on PayPoint concern. Waiting to hear a response.

Tim Mutualisation 19/7/2013 Timetable shared with BIS and Jo Swinson. Public engagement activities being developed and need to

liaise with POL / Truth to understand more detail around plans and potential role for BIS engagement
activities. Initial meetings with Stakeholder Forum members now confirmed.

Tim Separation 19/7/2013 POL working up a proposal around managing RMH going forward (e.g. services, resourcing and
pricing).
Tim Investment Review 19/7/2013 None
Revenue Financial services eee:
Katrina/Jai Financial services: PO 19/7/2013 Project on the introduction of bank accounts (basic, premium and current) 13 May launch. 39 branches
Bank accounts across East Anglia at which the new product will be piloted. The list included 16 Crowns (none proposed

for franchising), 2 WH Smith (previous Crown franchises - 1 in Chelmsford Simon Burns) and 4 on-site
conversions under NT. Launch was Crown branch in Castle Mall, Norwich (Simon Wright's
constituency). Partner banks reactions’ generally ok provided that PO do not do a hard sell in branches.
Reasonably balanced press coverage overall of PO current accounts - all dailies highlighted that Control
Account comes with a £5 fee per month. 2000 customers had initially registered interest. Press
coverage good since then and around half of MPs in area had opened account (incl JS). Mtg KL/Nick
Kennett 26/6 — some 600 applications to date and split is 15% (control)/75% standard/10% packaged
which was much as expected. 19/7 c800 applications, 400 accounts opened: on target although
openings below target for of 1500 by November but early days. ShEx to monitor progress of pilot. POL
to continue to manage future comms and stakeholder management carefully.

Katrina/Jai Financial services — 19/7/2013 Vince Cable written to Ana Botin (UK CEO) requesting that Santander agree to allow access to all of

UKGI00001879
UKGI00001879

general banking their current accounts through the post office - also Vince phonecall where Santander committed to
looking at this again. Nick has advised to hold off on Vince lever for now saying that slow and steady
progress being made on discussions. Mtg 26/6 KL/Nick Kennett who set out progress on financial
services overall who stressed their main priorities were to upskill staff, develop know your customer
capacity, exploit potential for cross-selling and ensure strong cadre of financial specialists to sell highly
regulated products (eg mortgages). As KPMG report points out, one constraint will be the physical
space to conduct FS meetings with customers.

Katrina NS &1 19/7/13 Payment mechanism for the £7m grant payment from BIS to NS&l is due on 1 March 2014. The new
payments system is not yet operational, and possibly won't be until the summer. Have been in contact
with NS&I and BIS Finance on timings, and are awaiting responses. Watching brief to be maintained
‘on the volume of NS&I sales, which are running ahead of plan, likely to be withdrawn 2014. Still
awaiting a response on payment mechanism from NS&l - not yet an issue, but complete lack of
engagement of slight concern. KL/Kennett meeting 26/6, Kennett would confirm projections on when
PBs would run out and Henk is doing planning on comms process for this — agreed that BIS/POL/HMT
need to liaise on timing and handling. Worth noting that PBs are only available in 700 branches and
then only if you positively ask so they are not a high-profile product.

Katrina/Tim Other financial services I 192/7/2013 Spoken to Sue Barton / Chris Day on opportunities for SME lending through Bol and Business Bank. To
be followed up once conversations have taken place within POL. Bol recent announcement re.
withdrawal from UK business banking — internal comms has been dealt with (i.e. no advice going to
SoS). POL stress it does not impact on their plans for SME business banking.

Katrina/Jai Credit unions 19/7/2013 ABCUL successful bidder in April to deliver CUEP. POL (John Dineen) holding early discussions with
ABCUL re back office platform for CUs that would link to the Post Office - but they will need to reach an
agreement that works commercially and operationally for both sides, and that will be compatible with
the development of the post office’s own financial services strategy. BIS continuing to monitor progress
with DWP and POL - politically there is desire for CUs to link with POs. Katrina attended APPG/Abcul
drinks on 4/7 — speakers included Lord McFall, member of Parly Commission on Banking Standards
and Lord Kennidy, Vice Chair, APPG on Credit Unions. Lots of fine words about how credit unions offer
much better alternative to bad banks and importance of helping financially excluded and avoiding the
exploitation of payday lenders. Useful meeting with BIS banking reform lead . Next steps: Jai inviting
John Dineen to KL next catch up with Kevin Seller and also to put on agenda (and fix) next catch up with
Nick Kennett

Revenue Government services
Katrina POCA & universal 19/7/2013 POCA model complete — time to be arranged with ShEx POL team to go through scenarios. DWP’s
/Tim credit opening SR position was to close POCA contract in 2015. Following advice fm HMT to CST,

submission to Jo, mtgs with ShEx / BIS Finance and DWP and POL, DWP withdrew proposal from SR.
DWP now wants to close POCA to new users in 2014 (and IDS wrote to Vince 17/6 to suggest this) but
recognises that ending contract in 2015 might not be practical. Vince and JS amended reply to IDS to
strengthen opposition to 2014 closure to new users and importance of viable alternatives Firm
encouragement of POL to develop alternative scenarios, Need to follow up and ensure momentum in
DWP discussions and modelling is taking place. Our dialogue with HMT and DWP also needs to be
maintained. Next steps: Will coffee Philip Orumwense and also KL fix mtg Will/Simon Tse and KL
talking to POL about their next mtgs with DWP incl how to present research results to DWP.

Useful mtg POL/leuan Griffith/KL with Howard Shiplee on UC — setting out what POL can offer in terms.
of identity management — agreed POL would follow up with Howard's deputy — Dominic Rankin.

UKGI00001879
UKGI00001879

Katrina DVLAVHO (incl 19/7/13 DVLA called meeting of policy officials and directors from HMPO, UKVI, etc on 18 December who will
UKVI/HMPO) esp DVLA form the basis of the group POL can leverage the contract with. Concerns were expressed about POL.
cross-government capability to deliver quality services. . Meeting with Colin Dingwall, CO Voter Registration Programme
FOCS contract who confirmed that he is planning to use the DVLA framework and wants to meet POL in September

(Kevin following up). DVLA framework steering board met 17 July. HMPO now pressing ahead —
contracts due Sept 13 with further options Oct/Nov . Capacity issues raised and also performance on
PO opening hours for DVLA contract. New team in DVLA who plan to novate the FOCS contract to
GPS in next 2 mths and will report back at next meeting: danger is whether GPS then promote it or
dump it!. . KL briefing HMT and (unless problem can be resolved) arranging meeting senior officials
DVLA/GDS/BIS to see if way forward can be agreed that ensures cost-effective use of DVLA framework
whilst also delivering results for GDS. DVLA NI currently consulting on expansion of services in NI
Post Offices FOCS framework shortlisted for chartered institute procurement award — decision on 11
Sept.

Katrina/Peter Govt services — other 19/7/13 Need to followup with GS team around Police work given conversation with Gordon Rose at the edges
of the Assisted Digital session. Indicated that scope for service provision was limited now they have
"kicked the tyres" - this might have a broader impact on POL's strategy where Police work plays a role
Waiting response from DWP who have suggested that Tell Us Once change of address might be piloted
via POL. Nice little launch of the CLG/POL Community Enterprise Fund, and agreement that BIS shall
sit on the judging panel — neither POL nor CLG has any plans for a follow up fund though.

Katrina/Peter Local authorities 19/7/13 Joint report published on 13 March. Policy moved from implementation to monitoring. Consumer
Focus report published on 20 May, reasonably positive, but absolutely zero coverage. Strategy meeting
with Gordon Rose on 29 April - set out POL's retreat from overt engagement. Michael Moore requested
meeting with PV to discuss Scotland. William Barker (DCLG digital strategy) wants to meet BIS to
discuss POL — mtg fixed for 29 July.

Katrina Assisted Digital 19/7/13 Attended Market Engagement and AD prog board in June. Progress slow. GDS wary of DVLA
framework as opportunity for assisted digital. Next prog board 19 July: GDS holding workshop with
depts. On 25 July to develop prototype procurement (but Rebecca has Not Had Time to read the FOCS
framework papers sent to her by DVLA yet.... Next AD meeting on 8 Aug will discuss procurement. .
Next steps: further mtg/catch up Rebecca Kemp Also arranging mtg Gordon Rose (POL) to discuss
BIS exemplar services.

Katrina IDA programme 49/7/13 Work on IDA Still slow to get off the ground with HMRC continuing to lead the charge. IDA currently
only at level 2 (ie no biometrics). Next round of contracts July. PEX mtg 9 July attended by David
Willetts for BIS — HO officials and we express concern re security aspects of paper (which places.
stronger emphasis on privacy than fraud reduction). Contracts offered to all 8 providers but POL (and
others) concerned at poor quality of contract and lack of commercial viability. Briefing to JS next wk
once results of this bidding round known.

Revenue. Mails etc

Katrina 19/7/2013 Important to drive growth through expended opening hours (which depends on progress of NTP),
services for SMEs, click and collect etc

Revenue Phone, broadband etc

Katrina 19/7/2013 Growth in telecoms and home broadband expected from increased cross-selling. Natural extension

from e-top-ups and bill payment. However not clear whether growth projections will materialise esp in
very price-sensitive market.

UKGI00001879
UKGI00001879

Contract with POL and National Express becomes known to BIS only through note from National
Express to JS’ office - suggest Will raises with Paula at next catch up.

Network issues

Mike Network transformation I 29/07/2013 Continuing discussions with POL and Ministers on proposed move to mandated programme and other
options in preparation for VC/JS meeting with POL on 11 July. Continuing to liaise closely with POL on
approach and preparation for this meeting. Further POL all day sessions with NFSP last week.
POL/SoS/JS meeting on 11 July went well. Further meeting with Ministers on 17 July brought them on
board with POL strategy conditional on NFSP buy-in, balancing the funding equation and close attention
to implementation. POL making progress (slow) and still in discussion/negotiation with NFSP. Next
session 31 July

Mike Crown Transformation 29/07/2013 8th strike (half day) on 17 July. 221 out of 370 stayed open. POL continuing to hold the line. Full day
strike 29 July. CTP update with POL on 25 July

Mike/Peter Local rates on ATMs 29/07/2013 POL detailed response to VOA submitted 21 June. Continuing to argue that POL exemption remains
valid under Stringer. Likely to require test case to resolve.

Mike/Peter Horizon and JFSA 29/07/2013 2" sight report on 4 cases examined in detail scheduled for 8 July. Report is heavily subjective, and
poorly written, and although it finds no systemic issues with Horizon, is critical of POL’s training &
support.

Media reports mainly misleading but quick media death. Oral statement to HoC on 9 July. JFSA
expressing concern about timescale and process for completing the review of the 47 cases in the 2"
Sight pipeline and handling of a further 100+ cases notified including new ones being raised. Meeting
with POL 30 July to discuss way fwd.

Stakeholders

Mike NFSP and CWU 19/07/2013 Following JS meeting NFSP and POL continuing to meet to try to identify a basis for NFSP support for
move to mandated NTP on an affordable basis. POL report useful sessions with NFSP on financial and
other constraints on re-jigging NTP package. Further POL/NFSP meetings last week. POL report
progress but still not reached a deal Ministerial agreement to strategy should now expedite. Next
meeting 31 July. Meeting with MF and JS fixed for 12 Aug at GT request. CWU looking to broaden the
scale of action on Crowns and pay by linking with wider anti RM privatisation campaign.

Mike Consumer focus & 19/07/2013 No problematic issues. Catch up meeting on 8 July. Further meeting scheduled for late Aug.
other stakeholders

Peter Parliamentary 29/07/2013 APPG request for Jo to attend a meeting, dates agreed for 10 Oct.
Annual network report to laid on 18 July — no proactive press. Copies shared with Das, Defra and CF.
Debate on postal services due on 2 Sept, called by Katy Clark and Mike Weir. SG leading on briefing

Peter Correspondence & PQs I 29/07/2013 ‘Over 700 Crown postcards received, CDU to only reply to first fifty cards from each branch.
BAU correspondence remains relatively low — c.10 outstanding cases. Move from Lynx to eCase
system starts today.

Jai Media monitoring 19/7/2013 A)PO Crown Network strikes - CWU announced 9th strike re pay and franchising proposals to take
place 29" July. Minimal press coverage since last half day strike on 17th July (when 58% Crowns
remained open) (B) Some regional stories with positive NTP coverage continues (Somerset) (C) Some
continue d coverage of subpostmasters “sacked, sued, jailed” over shortfalls showing up on PO Horizon
system. Little acknowlegdgment that investigation report found no evidence of system problems. (D)
Wide coverage of RM privatisation as one of the “ Government's biggest privatisation plans in decades,
valuing the company at an estimated £2.5bn”. Some links trying to be made by press between RM and

UKGI00001879
UKGI00001879

“P's uncertain future”

