WBONO0000795
WBON0000795

Subject: FW: Post Office Limited - Forensic assistance [BD-4A.FID20472253]
Date: Tue, 20 Aug 2013 12:33:26 +0000
Importance: Normal
Inline-Images: image001.gif; image002.gif; image004.jpg; image006.jpg; image008.jpg

Rodric
I've been making some enquiries regarding a replacement forensics expert for FJ.
Just to re-cap, in the running so far are:

e Deloitte — pitch received.

e Smith & Williamson — pitch received but may be conflicted as have previously acted for a SPMR against POL
on an accounting / Horizon issue.

« GT-see below

e Mazars — preparing a pitch for next week.

You'll see that GT have acted on a few accountancy / tax matters for SPMRs in the past. I don't believe that this would
prevent them acting for POL as an expert (unless we were against a particular SPMR that GT had acted for
previously). Do you agree? If so, I'll ask GT to prepare a pitch document.

Once we have a short list of possible experts, it may be worth a quick call next week (with CK?) to discuss precisely
what expert support is needed and how we go forward from here.

Kind regards
Andy

Andrew Parsons
Senior Associate
for and on behalf of Bond Dickinson LLP

Follow Bond Dickinson:

Blin)

www.bonddickinso:

From: Louise Kelly GRO 3]
Sent: 20 August 2013 12:44

To: Parsons, Andrew

Cc: Fred Brown; Chris M Clements

Subject: Post Office Limited - Forensic assistance

Hi Andy

I hope that you are well. Following our conversation last week I have made enquiries as to any work undertaken by
Grant Thornton in relation to sub Post Offices.

Due to Data Protection issues, I am unable to disclose the identity of the sub Post Offices which we have undertaken
work for but can confirm that we have undertaken accounts preparation and taxation work for a small number of sub

WBD_000665.000001
WBONO0000795
WBON0000795

Post Offices from 1997 to 2012.

Of course, this would only become an issue if we the sub Post Offices which we have undertaken work for became
involved in a claim and, if we were to be successful, we would ensure that each claimant is conflict checked on an
individual basis.

Please let me know if you have any problems with regards to clearing this with the Post Office Limited's in house legal
team. Hopefully this will not be an issue and we will be able to progress with the pitch process

I look forward to hearing from you soon
Many thanks

Louise

Louise Kelly I Manager I Forensic & Investigation Services
For Grant Thornton UK LLP

11/13 Penhill Road I CARDIFF I South Glamorgan I CF11 9UP
}T (internal) GRO T (office),
GRO }

El GRO __I Wwwwarant-thornton.co.uk

fo] GrantThornton

An instinct for growth”

UnDisputed

Quick access to insight and advice on
dispute resolution and investigations

http:/www.grant-thornton.co.uk

Grant Thornton UK LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales No.OC307742. A list of members is available from our registered
office: Grant Thornton House, Melton Street, Euston Square, London NW/1 2EP. Grant Thornton UK LLP is an independent financial adviser authorised and
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.

Grant Thornton UK LLP is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (Grant Thornton International). References to 'Grant Thornton’ are to the brand
under which the Grant Thornton member firms operate and refer to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton International and the
member firms are not a worldwide partnership. Services are delivered independently by member firms, which are not responsible for the services or activities
of one another. Grant Thornton International does not provide services to clients.

The name ‘Grant Thomton’, the Grant Thorton logo and ‘Instinct for growth’ are trademarks of Grant Thornton International. All copyright is owned by Grant
Thornton International, including the copyright in the Grant Thornton logo; all rights are reserved.

This email (and any attachments) is confidential and may also be legally privileged. It is intended for the exclusive use of the intended recipient, if you are not
the intended recipient, any copying, forwarding, printing or distribution of this email is prohibited and may be unlawful and any action taken or omitted to be
taken in reliance on the contents of this email or its attachments is at your own risk and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Grant Thornton UK LLP accepts
no responsibilty or liability to you. If you have received this email in error, please notify us immediately, delete it from your system and destroy any copies of it
{and any attachments).

When addressed to our clients, any advice or opinion contained in this email (and any attachments) are subject to the terms and conditions expressed in the
relevant governing engagement terms.

While we have taken reasonable precautions to ensure that any attachment to this email has been swept for viruses, email communications cannot be
guaranteed to be secure or error free as information can, inter alia, be corrupted, intercepted, lost or contain viruses. Grant Thornton UK LLP does not accept
liability for such matter or their consequences. In communicating with you by email you accept these risks.

Please note that communications sent by or to any person through our computer systems may be viewed by other Grant Thornton UK LLP personnel and
agents. Anything in this email (and any attachments) which does not relate to Grant Thomton UK LLP's official business is neither given nor endorsed by
Grant Thornton UK LLP.

Where relevant, please note that, unless expressly stated otherwise, any written advice contained in, or attached to this email is not intended and cannot be
used, by any person for avoiding any US penalties that may be imposed under the US Internal Revenue Service Code.

WBD_000665.000002
