AI298 - Approaches to restoring stability and integrity

This note outlines a series of methods of improving the stability of the product. A
three pronged approach is recommended:

1. Fix the individual problems which are currently affecting the live
environment. Measure through reduction in incidents and need for offices
to reboot, etc. This is underpinned by the monitoring activity being run
jointly by Pathway and POCL. Target needs to be agreed, likely to be based

on:
. reduction in overall number of system stability incidents
. reduction in maximum number of incidents per office
° reduction in number of “authorised reboots” overall and maximum
per office
. reduction in number of “unauthorised reboots” (as indication of user
perceived instability /lock up)
2. Re-visit the existing product to ensure we have a stable base from which to

go forward. This acknowledges that stability related problems can remain
hidden in software in the early stages of use, only to be revealed either as
volumes increase, as filestores age, as new releases of software or data make
new demands on resources, etc.

A programme of activities should be put in place, to run in parallel with early
live usage, to ensure the stability and integrity of the base product. This
programme would potentially include:

. reterospective design reviews, including “targetted” reviews of
specific risk areas (eg failures, double activities, across paradigm
boundaries etc). Preferably involve an independent viewpoint
outwith Pathway; POCL may also add value.

. review end to end design approach to ensure common assumptions
(eg across paradigm boundary - who is validating what?)

. introduction of defensive measures at key risk areas

. ensure similar errors to those fixed at (1) have been addressed, even if

no “fault” has yet emerged

° targetted “lab” testing of specific risk areas, eg monitoring of resource
usage (eg memory leakage etc)

3. Re-visit the development approach to ensure that future developments do
not introduce similar stability problems into the live estate.

Opportunities may include:

. increased effort in the design and design review activities - including
more independent reviews, peer reviews, and “targetted reviews”
considering specific conditions.

. increased use of code inspections, peer review of code etc

. increased consideration of exception conditions

WITN05970133
WITN05970133
WITN05970133
WITN05970133

more agressive “lab” testing by design-aware expert team
more stress testing,

use of technical tools for memory monitoring etc PRIOR as an
assurance rather the debugging activity.

extended trialling in a ring-fenced subset of offices (this assumes that
POCL would accept the “debugging” of software, rather than trialling
of the business processes, in a live environment. Expectation
management!).
