WITNO0340111
WITNO0340111

AWU

The communications union

Re: [insert member's name] -Invitation to Conduct Code Interview

Further to my letter dated [date] objecting to the use of the Conduct Code, I understand that you have
written to [insert name] on i to attend a formal i der the Conduct
Code regarding a charge of [insert char

As you will be aware, the correct procedure to deal with such losses is the Losses and Gains Procedure,
which is not only agreed with the CWU; it is also contractual, being part of the Crown Office Staffing
Agreement (COSA). Please find enclosed a copy of the Losses & Gains Procedure for your reference.

May I draw your attention in particular to the following:

© The Conduct Code is clear that it applies to matters of conduct, and not capability. It specifies the
use of the Losses and Gains Procedure instead.

e The Losses & Gains Procedure states “Any colleague whose balancing record falls below the
standard will need to be dealt with under the ‘escalation process” it then goes on to clarify what is
considered to be below standard in the Escalation Process (i.e. 3 losses of £30 or more in a 13 week
period).

e It further states “To ensure there is a consistent approach across the whole Crown Office estate, all
offices will comply with the actions matrix, without exception. In that way Managers ensure all
offices are delivering a consistent approach to loss management within their respective offices”.

I must make it clear that on behalf of our member I fundamentally object to the inappropriate use of the
Conduct Code instead of the agreed Losses & Gains Procedure, especially as Martin Rouse, former Regional
Manager, committed at a recent meeting with the Union to ensuring that all managers use the collectively
agreed Losses and Gains Procedure as “their first port of call”. Accordingly I would be grateful if you could
confirm as a matter of urgency that you will not be going ahead with the interview and instead of using the
Conduct Code, that the Losses & Gains Procedure will be used.

If, despite this letter, you go ahead with the Conduct Code interview and if you subsequently issue a
Discipline penalty please note that I will be supporting our member throughout this matter including any
necessary Appeal. I will naturally be attending the Discipline hearing where I will make it clear that you are
acting outside of the agreed procedures. I will also be reporting this breach of the Losses & Gains
Procedure to our Headquarters who have already been in discussions with senior Post Office management
regarding our concerns in this matter. Furthermore I will be encouraging our member to lodge a formal
grievance against the inappropriate use of the Conduct Code.

In view of the above, I look forward to your confirmation that the discipline hearing will not go ahead.

Yours sincerely

