CROWN OFFICE

REPORTS TO THE PROCURATOR FISCAL

A GUIDE FOR SPECIALIST REPORTING AGENCIES

SEVENTH EDITION

2006

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

CROWN OFFICE

April 2006

REPORTS TO THE PROCURATOR FISCAL

A GUIDE FOR SPECIALIST REPORTING AGENCIES — SEVENTH EDITION

Contents

FOREWORD BY THE LORD ADVOCATE
FOREWORD AND CONSTITUTIONAL POSITION
1. INTRODUCTION

2. GENERAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS

Time Bar/Delay

Preserving Evidence

Proof of the Offence

Identification of the Accused

Regulation of Investigatory Powers (Scotland) Act 2000

Relationship with the UK Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000
Case Law

3. FORM OF REPORT TO PROCURATOR FISCAL

ISCJIS

Electronic Reporting

Requirement to obtain ‘S’ numbers
Form of report

Name of Reporting Authority

The Accused

Draft Charges

Time Bar

Antecedents (Previous history of the accused)
The Locus

Introduction

Summary of Facts and Evidence

Page
5

6

8

10

10
11
11
11
12
12
13

14

14
14
14
15
15
15
16
16
16
16
17
17
Anticipated Line of Defence/Mitigation
Remarks

Why Prosecute?

Benefit to the Accused

Cost to the Community or Agency
Language Needs and Cultural Sensitivities
List of Witnesses

Statements of Witnesses: General Considerations

Character of Witness

Ability to “Listen”

Accuracy

Use of Tact

When a statement should be taken
Witness statement form

Witness statement contents

Agency employee witness statement form
Method of Taking the Statement
Types of Witnesses

Example of Standard Statement Form
List of Productions

Note on Law

4, PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

Use of Notes

Statements

Availability to attend court
Detrimental Evidence

5. ACTION FOLLOWING SUBMISSION OF STATEMENTS

6. ROLE OF PROCURATOR FISCAL

7. CONTACT WITH PROCURATOR FISCAL BEFORE TRIAL

8. DEFENCE PRECOGNITIONS
9. COURT PROCEDURE

Arrival at Court

Contact with Procurator Fiscal

Early Departure of Witnesses

Order of Appearance of Witnesses

The Oath

Court Officials and Order of Questioning
Examination of Witnesses

Tnitial Questions

18
18
18
19
19
19
19
20
20
20
20
20
20

22
23
23
24
25
26
27

28

28
29
30
30

31

36

36

36
36
36
37
37
37

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
Development of Case

Provocative Questions

Questions to Corroborating Officers

Opinions

Reference to Notes

Identification of Productions

Technical Terms

Permission to Remain in Court after Giving Evidence
Form of Addressing the Sheriff

Verdict and Sentence

10. JURY TRIALS
11. APPEALS

APPENDIX 1
List of Procurators Fiscal

APPENDIX 2
Murray v Normand

APPENDIX 3
Lord Advocates Guidelines to Chief Constables
+ Investigating and Reporting Racist Crime
+ Assessment of Language Needs and Cultural Sensitivities
+ Death Reports and Associated Crime Reports

APPENDIX 4
Pennycuick v Lees

42

43

51

54

60

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

FOREWORD BY THE LORD ADVOCATE

I am pleased to be able to provide you with the Crown Office publication ‘Reports to the
Procurator Fiscal — a guide for specialist reporting agencies’.

Over fifty agencies other than the Police report cases to Procurators Fiscal each year. I
am committed to ensuring that such reports are dealt with appropriately and effectively
by Procurators Fiscal.

This requires understanding on the part of Procurators Fiscal of the relevant legislative
provisions and appreciation of the role and functions of the reporting agencies. The other
essential ingredient is that reporting agencies follow best practice in the investigation and
reporting of cases to Procurators Fiscal and in preparation for the giving of evidence by
their officers in court.

The department is committed to compliance with the Race Relations (Amendment) Act
2000 and this is incorporated within the guide. The guide provides detailed guidance and
suggests best practice in areas such as language needs and cultural sensitivities of both
accused and witnesses.

The Guide also takes account of changes following our departmental management
review. The department consists of eleven areas that correspond with the police forces in
Scotland. Details of Area and District Procurators Fiscal are contained in Appendix 1.

The aim of this publication is to provide advice for specialist reporting agencies which

will enable them to contribute effectively to achieving an outcome in reported cases
which best serves the public interest.

COLIN D BOYD
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

FOREWORD
The purpose of this guide is twofold:

1) to assist specialist reporting agencies in knowing exactly what the Procurator
Fiscal requires when a case is reported and to provide some indication of how
trials are conducted in Scotland; and

2) to identify and to address common problems in reporting and in prosecuting such
cases which more often than not involve employees or members of specialist
reporting agencies.

The publication of the first edition of this guide to the submission of reports provided a
working framework that assisted in achieving consistency and effectiveness in
prosecutions. Previous editions of the guide have been received positively and we have
now produced a further updated seventh edition

This guide contains detailed guidance on matters relevant to the Race Relations
(Amendment) Act 2000 including, in Appendix 3, Crown Office guidance on race related
matters. The updated guide takes account of the changes recommended in the report
which was prepared following our management review, as well as the reorganisation of
the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service from six regions, to eleven areas that
correspond with the Scottish police forces. Contact details for these revised Area Offices
are contained within the guide in Appendix 1.

It must be stressed that the information contained in this guide is not intended to be an
absolute instruction. Each case should be considered on its own particular facts and
circumstances. Moreover, for some specialist reporting agencies there may already have
been agreed a form of report that best suits the reporting of cases in bulk.

The guide is intended for the reporting of cases that will in the view of the Procurator
Fiscal be prosecuted in the public interest. Trivial matters need not be reported but may
be dealt with pragmatically.

This paper seeks to describe the best practice for reporting cases to Procurators Fiscal
although there may be local variations or differences from one agency to another. The
best practice described is that in April 2006.

Constitutional Position

Following devolution, the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service is now a
department of the Scottish Executive. The department is headed by the Lord Advocate,
assisted by the Solicitor General for Scotland. Collectively they are known as the Scottish
Law Officers and both are members of the Scottish Executive.
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

The Lord Advocate’s position as the independent head of the system of prosecution of
crime and investigation of deaths in Scotland is preserved by the terms of the Scotland
Act 1998, specifically sections 29(2) and 48(5).
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

1. INTRODUCTION

Ll Procurators Fiscal receive reports from the eight Scottish police forces and British
Transport Police, Ministry of Defence Police and the United Kingdom Atomic Energy
Constabulary, as well as over fifty specialist reporting agencies. These amount over a
year to many thousands of reports. There are virtually no private prosecutions in
Scotland. Procurators Fiscal prosecute in the public interest. A full list of addresses can
be found at Appendix I to this paper.

1.2 As all police constables in Scotland attend at the Scottish Police College at
Tulliallan in Fife their training results in early lessons in the uniform reporting of crimes.
A common format of report has been devised and has been employed for many years.

1.3. The diverse nature of the subject matter of each of the specialist reporting
agencies has resulted in a wide range of cases reported for consideration of proceedings.
These reports are the working papers of Procurators Fiscal and the advantages of
uniformity are obvious with so many different agencies involved.

1.4 Each specialist reporting agency is governed by its own primary legislation and of
course that legislation must be seen in the context of (i) the professional training and
approaches of the reporting agency; and (ii) the nature and requirements of the law of
Scotland in relation to the prosecution of crime.

In general the approach of most agencies will be to secure compliance with the law by
educating and offering advice in the first instance and enforcement of provisions by direct
action may be the next step. Reporting cases to the Procurator Fiscal will be seen as a
last resort.

The advice contained in this guide should be followed at all stages of the action by an
agency in relation to a particular case, even at the stage of early advice and warnings
given to a suspect. This is to ensure that, should these measures fail to secure compliance
and a report to the Procurator Fiscal becomes necessary, it will be possible for the agency
to rely upon properly maintained records of their actions and to report to the Procurator
Fiscal a full picture of the steps taken by them short of reporting to the Procurator Fiscal,
and the response or lack thereof by the suspect. The Procurator Fiscal may in due course
wish to lead evidence of such matters. However this will only be possible if the evidence
is available and admissible.

1.5 Further, each specialist reporting agency is usually closely governed by its own
secondary legislation by way of statutory instruments, regulations or similar orders.
These too must be seen in the context referred to above.

1.6 The provisions of the Human Rights Act 1998 and the incorporation of the
Convention Rights in that Act both in terms of the Act itself and by reference to the
Scotland Act 1998 must be bome in mind. Since 20 May 1999 the Lord Advocate and
Procurators Fiscal have been required by the Scotland Act 1998 to ensure that they do not
act incompatibly with any of the Convention Rights. This requirement extended to the
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

whole of the Scottish Executive as from 1 July 1999. All other public bodies including
specialist reporting agencies not included in the Scottish Executive became subject to the
requirement to act compatibly with Convention Rights with the coming into force of the
Human Rights Act 1998 on 2 October 2000. All specialist reporting agencies are affected
by this requirement. Even those agencies which are not public bodies subject to the
Human Rights Act 1998 will be indirectly affected by the obligation on Procurators
Fiscal not to act incompatibly with Convention rights. This is because Procurators Fiscal
are under a duty to scrutinise all reports received by them which may form the basis of
criminal proceedings. Procurators Fiscal must ascertain whether any evidence has been
obtained in breach of any Convention Rights and whether, by seeking to rely on that
evidence in taking proceedings, the Procurator Fiscal might breach the accused's
Convention Rights. Specialist reporting agencies should take steps to make and keep staff
aware of the implications of the incorporation of Convention Rights for the practice of
each individual agency. This will minimise the possibility of any breach of Convention
Rights arising from the investigation of any case ultimately reported to the Procurator
Fiscal.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

2. GENERAL LEGAL REQUIREMENTS

2.1 In any trial under Scots law, before a person can be convicted of a criminal
offence there must be corroborated evidence to prove two essential facts:- firstly, that an
offence was committed and secondly, that it was committed by the accused. The burden
of proving these beyond a reasonable doubt is on the Crown.

Corroboration simply means evidence from at least two sources and can be in the form of
eye-witnesses, admissions or surrounding facts and circumstances. Even if there are no
eye-witnesses, there may well still be sufficient evidence e.g. one witness seeing an
accused with an axe in his hand standing beside a freshly felled tree, plus one witness
who hears the accused admit cutting it down would provide corroboration of the fact that
the accused cut down the tree. Some Statutes contain a concession allowing a prosecution
on the basis of one witness.

It should, however, be noted that the law of corroboration does not require that every
piece of evidence has to be spoken to by two witnesses. The evidence of a single witness
may still be relevant and significant to the case. In some cases the evidence of separate
witnesses on different dates may be mutually corroborative if it relates to the same
offence and accused. If there is only one witness to an admission, the evidence is still
admissible, relevant and, probably, vital. If there is any doubt, the matter should be
discussed with the Procurator Fiscal.

2.2 Each specialist reporting agency has its own legal problems in relation to its
interests. For example, in cases under town and country planning legislation, the process
of negotiation does not always easily square with the process of timeous criminal
prosecution. This can cause particular problems with (a) time-bar and (b) preserving
evidence.

2.2.1 Time-Bar/Delay

There is a general rule that summary prosecution of statutory offences must be started
within six months of the date of the offence unless a statute makes a different provision
on time. The rule has been varied somewhat by legislation in 1996 but to avoid
unnecessary delay everything must be reported as soon as possible and in any event well
within six months. Negotiations obviously can take time and will often continue well
beyond periods for compliance, e.g. for steps required by an enforcement notice.
However, any report to the Procurator Fiscal must be submitted well before the expiry of
the six month time-bar for the case to be fully considered, if necessary for discussion or
further investigations to take place, and then brought before the court. As a comparison,
police officers generally submit reports to the Procurator Fiscal within 28 days of the
commission of the offence. Although negotiations may cause delays, any difficulties
about reporting in any particular case should be discussed with the Procurator Fiscal and
the reason for any delay in reporting should be specified in the report.

Since the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights by the Scotland
Act 1998 and the commencement of the Human Rights Act 1998, Procurators Fiscal have

10
regularly been faced with preliminary challenges to their right to prosecute based on
Article 6 and the accused’s right to a fair trial within a reasonable time. This might arise
where the reporting agency reports cases to the Procurator Fiscal containing common law
charges, which are not subject to time bar, or statutory charges where the time bar is in
excess of six months. Such cases should be reported promptly to the Procurator Fiscal
together with a detailed explanation for any period of apparent delay. Procurators Fiscal
in the face of a challenge will require to satisfy the court that any delay is reasonable and
can be explained. It may be necessary to justify the apparent delay taken in reporting the
case to the Procurator Fiscal from:

(a) date of offence;

(b) date of discovery of offence by the reporting agency; and

(c) date on which the accused is made aware by the reporting agency that he
is under suspicion for the alleged offence, e.g. during interview, caution
and charge or on the execution of a search warrant.

In some instances the Procurator Fiscal may require to mark cases no proceedings where
there has been a delay on the part of the reporting agency since to proceed would be
regarded as incompatible with the Article 6 obligation. Delay in reporting cases can also
detract from the public interest in prosecuting them.

2.2.2 Preserving Evidence

A breach of planning control, for example, may not be viewed as a prosecution matter at
its inception. Thereafter, informal negotiations are likely to be made without a thought for
preserving or noting evidence for the purpose of presenting evidence to a court. But,
however laudable the negotiation process may undoubtedly be, the criminal law makes no
allowances for evidence of insufficient quality. While the time, economy and
convenience of planning departments may militate against this, corroborated evidence
must clearly exist and be kept to be led before the court if a case is to result in a
conviction.

2.3. Proof of the Offence

Normally there should be two witnesses to speak to all of the essential facts that
constitute the offence. Essential facts are those that form the basic essence of the charge.
For example, the original mileage of a car in a "clocking" case would require to be
corroborated, as this would be an essential fact.

2.4 Identification of the Accused

Identification in court of an accused as the culprit is crucial in a criminal case. As this is
an essential fact, it must be corroborated. It cannot, for example, be assumed that because
a person's name appears on a valuation roll that he is the owner or occupier of the
property. There must be direct evidence to prove the fact of identification. This will
usually require at least two witnesses to point to the accused in court.

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

It is essential that the correct person is prosecuted, whether this be an individual, a
partnership or a limited company. In the case of a limited company, particular care must
be taken to ensure the name and address is correctly given.

The identification of the correct limited company cannot be over-emphasised especially
where there are many subsidiary companies with similar sounding names. It should also
be noted that in some circumstances companies may have engaged sub-contractors, and
so it is essential to clearly investigate the appropriate accused. Of course, it may also be
appropriate to proceed against more than one legal person. Agencies are encouraged to
recommend in their reports to the Procurator Fiscal which particular person or persons
they consider should be prosecuted and the reasons for the recommendation. It must be
borne in mind that if an accused is charged in a particular capacity e.g. an
owner/occupier, director or a company, etc, the evidence to prove this must be included
in the report.

Particular care must be taken to ensure that there is sufficient evidence of identification in
cases where negotiations or meetings have been with employees or agents rather than
with the accused. For this reason, details of meetings, conversations, events etc should be
noted and dated.

2.5 The Regulation of Investigatory Powers (Scotland) Act 2000 (RIPSA)

Some specialist reporting agencies may require to use covert surveillance techniques in
targeting criminals. Authorisation under RIPSA is required to give lawful authority to
carry out covert surveillance. Covert surveillance is defined as being that which is
undertaken in a manner calculated to ensure that the person subjected to it is not aware
that it is taking place.

The Act does not seek to regulate less intrusive forms of surveillance, which the public is
generally aware of. General observation forms part of the duties of many law
enforcement agencies and other public authorities and is not usually regulated by RIPSA.
For example, police officers will be on patrol to prevent and detect crime, maintain public
safety and prevent disorder. Trading standards officers might observe and then visit a
shop as part of their enforcement function to verify the supply or level of supply of goods
or services that may be liable to a restriction. Such observation may involve the use of
equipment to merely reinforce normal sensory perception, such as binoculars or cameras,
but not involving the systematic surveillance of an individual.

A code of practice is the Scottish Executive website at
http://www.scotland.gov.uk/library5/government/cosu.pdf which provides guidance on
the use of covert surveillance by public authorities under RIPSA.

2.6 Relationship with the UK Regulation of Investigatory Powers Act 2000 (RIPA)
The UK Act (RIPA) is the appropriate legislation for surveillance that will mainly take

place outside Scotland or start outside Scotland or is for purposes reserved to the UK
Government, such as national security or economic wellbeing. For all other surveillance

12
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

in Scotland, the Scottish Act (RIPSA) is the appropriate legislation and should be used by
Scottish public authorities.

2.7 Case Law

Scotland has in practice a smaller range of crimes or offences within any given topic
covered by a specialist reporting agency. That means that there tend to be fewer reported
criminal cases under the legislation covering the topic.

English and Welsh, and Northern Irish legislation is frequently very similar to that in
Scotland but not invariably so. Case law from elsewhere is thus persuasive or highly
persuasive but not binding. Thus case law from other jurisdictions is frequently of
assistance but no more than that.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3. FORM OF REPORT TO PROCURATOR FISCAL
3.1 ISCHIS

Given the nature of criminal proceedings, a large volume of information and
documentation is generated at various stages throughout the process, which requires to be
transferred between agencies. The transfer of information has traditionally been paper-
based; necessitating repeated entering of data onto the computer systems of the respective
agencies.

It has long been recognised that the efficiency of the system could be improved if
information was more easily exchanged and shared among the criminal justice
organisations. This recognition has resulted in the development of the Integration of
Scottish Criminal Justice Information Systems (ISCJIS) Project, which has been ongoing
since the early 1990s.

Through the creation of a series of IT linkages between the various computer systems of
the main criminal justice organisations, with the SCRO computer database as the hub,
and the development of agreed rules and data standards, ISCJIS has enabled the
electronic transfer and exchange of information between agencies. This avoids repeated
data entry and the speed and quality of inter-agency communication have increased as a
result.

Information exchange links are in place between the police forces, COPFS, the sheriff
courts and SCRO, with further developments ongoing to develop and pilot links with
other criminal justice organisations and agencies.

3.2 Electronic Reporting

As part of these developments, all specialist reporting agencies should from 1 January
2006 be reporting cases electronically to the Procurator Fiscal, either by the use of a
secure email system or via the COPFS secure website, SRAWEB. Procurators Fiscal will
no longer accept cases reported in ‘hard copy’ paper form. This will result in
improvements in efficiency, speed, accuracy and access to information. Further
information in relation to this can be obtained from the ISCJIS Team at the Scottish
Executive Justice Department on 0131 244 8372 or, in relation to SRAWEB, from the
Crown Office Policy Group on 0131 247 2668.

3.3 Requirement to obtain ‘S’ numbers

To enable information to be exchanged between different agencies, tracked throughout
the justice process and recorded on the SCRO database of pending and previous cases, it
is necessary that all accused details are accompanied by a unique SCRO or ‘S’ number.
The effect of this is that all cases being reported to the Procurator Fiscal, by police and
specialist agencies, require an ‘S’ number before they can be reported.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

‘S’ numbers are obtained by applying to the police Records Office in the area where the
offence was allegedly committed. Customised forms have been produced for use when
making an application and copies of these can be obtained by contacting the ISCJIS
Team at the above number or by accessing the ISCJIS website at
www.scotland.gov.uk/justice/iscjis. The ISCJIS Team can arrange to register your
organisation to access this website.

ISCJIS style offence charges have also been drafted, each with a unique charge code,
which enables cases to be tracked and recorded throughout the system. These uniform
charges and codes, details of which can be found on the ISCJIS website, must be used
when applying for ‘S’ numbers and reporting cases to the Procurator Fiscal. If no draft
charge and code exists for an offence you wish to report, you can request that a new style
charge be added to the system by contacting the Information Systems Division at Crown
Office.

Once an ‘S’ number has been provided by the police Records Office, the application and
number should be sent together with the offence report to the Procurator Fiscal.

To find out any further information about electronic reporting or other ISCJIS
developments, contact the ISCJIS Team or the Crown Office Policy Group.

3.4 Form of Report

In order to comply with ISCJIS, it has been necessary to agree a standard format for
reporting cases. This is known as the SPR and is based on the standard style of report
submitted to the Procurator Fiscal by the police. All agencies reporting cases, whether
electronically or not, should submit reports in this format.

The following guidance provides a style for reporting cases in this way: -

3.5 Name of Reporting Authority

First and foremost the name and telephone number of the reporting officer to be
contacted should be specified as necessary for discussions or further enquiries.

3.6 The Accused
3.6.1 Individual: Name, address, occupation and date of birth should be given.

3.6.2 Firms: Name and place of business, the names and dates of birth of partners
should be given.

3.6.3 Companies: Full name, registered office and any other relevant places of business,
the names and positions of relevant company officers should be given.
In all cases details of previous convictions known should be given.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3.7 Draft Charges

Draft charges help to focus on the essential facts to be proved and also should clearly
identify the relevant statutory provisions. Breach of a departmental code, for example, is
not a breach of the law. The draft charge should identify any European Directive and
United Kingdom legislation in full, that is, both the main Act and any Regulation in
delegated legislation. Copies of delegated legislation ought to be provided.

Each charge should be modified to take account of the individual circumstances and facts
of the case. Charges should be listed chronologically. The place of the offence and the
date or the period of the offence must be clearly and accurately stated.

Reference to the appropriate penalty provisions should be made for each charge. Notices
of Penalty are no longer a requirement of Scots law but Courts have made it clear that
they may look to those lawyers appearing before them for assistance in these matters.

3.8 Time-Bar

THE TIME BAR SHOULD BE CLEARLY STATED BENEATH EACH DRAFT
CHARGE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT.

3.9 Antecedents (Previous history of the accused)

Relevant background information should be given, e.g. information on the employment
or business of the accused, previous dealings with the agency or warnings. This is very
important where an accused limited company has carried out similar work in other
countries.

3.10 The Locus

A description should be given with details of the locus, and, if appropriate, its character,
significance and the particular area in which it is situated.

The locus of the charge determines the court in which the prosecution is to take place.
Multiple charges with several loci should be reported to the Procurator Fiscal who has the
greater number of charges in his or her jurisdiction.

Offences involving failures to submit returns or false returns may allow a choice of venue
for prosecution. Where a false return is suspected the envelope submitting the return
should be kept and it may be possible to raise proceedings at the court having jurisdiction
over the place where the return was made or posted - in most cases however jurisdiction
will fall at the place where the return was received or a failure to make a return occurred.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3.11 Introduction

This should give details of how the Agency came to take action; how it became aware of
the offence, and in particular complaints from the public, may be highly relevant.

Details of attempts to negotiate with the accused and their results should be given.
Alternatively an explanation may be given as to why negotiations are not appropriate.

The effect of the offence on the public or the locality in general should be given to
highlight the significance of the offence.

3.12 Summary of Facts and Evidence

This should summarise the relevant facts that constitute the offences and specify the
evidence which proves them. All relevant evidence must be disclosed whether
favourable to the Crown or the defence. There must be no wilful suppression of relevant
evidence.

Particular attention should be given to specify the evidence that identifies the accused as
the person responsible for the offence (see paragraph 2.4 above). Experience has shown
that this fact may be assumed by investigating officers instead of ensuring that it is
established by corroborated evidence.

Details of relevant discussions or interviews with the accused should also be given. (See
paragraph 4.2 below).

It should be bome in mind that this summary will be the basis of the facts narrated to the
court by the Procurator Fiscal in the event of a plea of guilty. Accordingly, it should
contain all facts that the Agency regards as significant.

Where scientific tests or inquiry form a material basis of the evidence a summary of their
procedures is considered helpful.

The importance of providing a full narration cannot be over stated. Non-lawyers writing
for lawyers frequently make assumptions or assume technical knowledge: this is an error
that arises irrespective of the nature of the legal business being considered.

Reporting officers must realise that what is put in a report has a direct impact upon the
nature of the prosecution and on the result.

The prosecution of a family butcher was the subject matter of the appeal in Murray v
Normand. The Opinion from the appeal courts is reproduced in Appendix 2 to this paper
and it indicates the importance of full explanation and disclosure to the Procurator Fiscal.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3.13 Anticipated Line of Defence/Mitigation

If it is known or anticipated that the accused will put forward a particular defence, then
this should be stated together with details of any evidence that either contradicts or
supports it. A good case is only as strong as its weakest link. It is always preferable to
know this from the outset, since it may be possible to either make further inquiries into
the matter, or alternatively prevent a case proceeding unnecessarily when it is unlikely to
result in a conviction.

Even if there is no specific defence stated, any evidential difficulties should be specified.
A useful question for investigating officers to ask is "If I were the accused, what defence
would I think of?" and thereafter consider whether it can be disproved by evidence.

Any mitigating circumstances known should also be given. In particular, if the accused
has taken any step to rectify the situation, the Procurator Fiscal should be kept advised of
the up-to-date position. On conviction, the court would wish to know the current position.

3.14 Remarks
3.14.1 Why Prosecute?

The decision whether or not to prosecute is taken by the Procurator Fiscal on the basis of
the public interest. The views of the reporting Agency are clearly of significance and are
taken into account. But the final decision is for the Procurator Fiscal. Any expected
consequences of failure to prosecute this offence should be detailed, as should any
difficulties enforcing a policy that may mean the prosecution is desirable to deter others
from doing likewise.

Procurators Fiscal assume that a responsible public body will not report a matter unless it
is of some importance, but it is desirable to state the reasons for the reporting. A court
will certainly require this information to be given in deciding how serious an offence is
and what penalty is appropriate.

For example, prosecution of a person who installs unauthorised windows may seem an
excessive way to deal with an apparently trivial matter until it is known that there are
numerous such cases occurring which substantially affect the character of a street, and
failure to secure compliance may render an important policy unenforceable.

In short, it should be stated (a) why prosecution is considered necessary and in the public
interest and (b) the consequences of the offence in the public interest.

If a non-court disposal is considered a reasonable approach, that ought to be stated with
reasons. Non-court disposals include warnings by the Procurator Fiscal and fiscal fines
ranging from £20 to £100.
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3.14.2 Benefit to the Accused

The extent to which an accused has benefited from his offending is also a relevant matter
which the court will require to consider if it is to sentence appropriately.

This information (and the evidence on which it is based) should therefore be given or
estimated as far as possible so that the Procurator Fiscal can, firstly, decide whether
summary proceedings are sufficient and, secondly, advise the court of this information on
conviction.

For example in a car clocking case it is essential to provide information about the
apparent enhancement to value of the vehicle by offering it for sale with a lower mileage.

The benefit to an accused from his offending may not necessarily be restricted to
financial matters. It is clear that in relation to environmental crimes companies may
incorporate a possible offence into its risk strategy and that may be a financial benefit.
However, other offences may be committed out of a desire to save time or beat
competitors.

3.14.3 Cost to the Community or Agency

If there is any continuing aesthetic or financial cost to the community or the Agency (for
example, to clear up after an oil spill) as a result of the offence, this information should
be given so that the court can be advised accordingly, and the amount should be given
together with a copy of any invoice so that the court may consider whether a
compensation order should be made. The making of a compensation order is, however, a
matter entirely for the discretion of the court.

3. 15 Language Needs and Cultural Sensitivities

It is important to ensure that the Procurator Fiscal is aware of the language and cultural
needs of the accused and witnesses. The Procurator Fiscal should be advised of the first
or preferred language of the accused, victim and witnesses (and bereaved relatives if
relevant). This should include an assessment as to whether an interpreter will be required
in court and whether correspondence to the individual will require to be translated. The
Procurator Fiscal should also be advised of any particular needs that arise from the
individuals’ racial, cultural or religious backgrounds. Reference should be made to the
Lord Advocate’s Guidelines to Chief Constables, which are set out in Appendix 3. These
were issued to Chief Constables in April 2002 and present best practice in reporting cases
to Procurators Fiscal when accused persons, victims or witnesses have needs that arise
from their particular backgrounds.

3.16 List of Witnesses

Names and addresses should be given together with telephone numbers if known. If a
witness is involved in a case in the course of their work or employment their business
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

address should be given. Where the witness is involved in a private capacity, the home
address should normally be given.

If a witness does not wish his or her home address to be given in court, this fact should be
clearly stated, both on the list of witnesses and on his or her statement. Holiday dates of
witnesses for the year following the submission of the report should be given if known
(together with any dates unavailable).

3.17 Statements of Witnesses: General Considerations
3.17.1 Character of Witness

Different people have different personalities and as such require to be treated in different
ways. The approach depends on the individual. This involves a high level of common
sense, and an element of intuition.

3.17.2 Ability to "Listen"

A successful interviewer will undoubtedly be a good listener. A good listener gives the
witness the confidence to talk, by appearing interested in what he is saying. A relaxed
and talkative witness is more likely to give the most information, even if as an
afterthought.

3.17.3 Accuracy

It does not matter how helpful and honest a witness may be, it is still difficult on
occasions to establish all the facts. He may have poor recollection of events or an
inability to say exactly what he thinks. There are times when a witness will believe what
he is telling you to be the truth when in reality his account is inaccurate. This may be
because through the passage of time his mind becomes unable to distinguish truth from
what he imagined. Care should be taken to distinguish information within the witness’
own knowledge from information disclosed to the witness by others.

It is therefore important that any investigating officer be alert and not misguided by
information that is not accurate.

3.17.4 Use of Tact

With the use of tact much resentment can be avoided. A witness should not be ridiculed,
and rarely rebuked. Far more information will be obtained from a witness who is at ease
during the interview.

3.17.5 When a Statement should be taken

As mentioned already, memory fades as time passes, therefore a statement should be

obtained as soon as reasonably practicable after the event. This way the statement is to
hand as soon as possible and negates the need to chase up witnesses at a later date, only

20
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

to find that they have left the address or have taken a holiday. (For further discussion on
statements see para 4.3).

3.17.6

Witness Statement Form

Each statement should have the facilities for the following information:

Notes:

(a)

(b)

qd) Surname

(2) Maiden name

(3)  Forename(s) or middle names

(4) Title

(5) Home address

(6) Home telephone number

(7) Business address

(8) Business telephone number

(9) Care of address (if applicable)

(10) Care of address, telephone number

(11) Date of birth

(12) Occupation

(13) Known as or alias

(14) Identity of statement taker

(15) Department of statement taker

(16) Time, day, date of noting of statement

(17) Location of making of statement

(18) Indication as to whether the person noting the statement was alone or
accompanied at time, and if so by whom

(19) Whether the witness read the statement over and was asked if it was
accurate and signed it.

All the above information is vital if we are to establish who is speaking to
particular issues. Remember at (3) above the spelling of both surnames and
forenames vary, so confirm with the witness the proper spellings. For example:
Lesley and Leslie; Ian and Iain; Brian and Bryan; Jacqui and Jackie.

The benefit of remembering to obtain the telephone number at (6) above is
obvious. It is a quick means of getting in contact with the witness; especially to
countermand the witness. This applies to both police and Procurator Fiscal.
Again remember the telephone number at (8) above as your witness is not always
going to be at his home address.

Numbers 11, 12 and 13 are all mentioned so as to establish and confirm the

identity of the witness, i.e. if there are two witnesses with the same name then
they are unlikely to have all other personal details the same.

21
(d)

3.17.7

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

(9)

WITN10510102

WITN10510102

Numbers 14-18 are noted so that if ambiguities arise then it can be readily
established who in fact had noted the statement from the witness. It may be
necessary for the Fiscal to put the terms of a statement to a witness if the evidence
of that witness appears to depart from the terms of a statement previously given
by him. Ultimately, perjury proceedings might require to be considered based
upon the difference between the statement originally given by the witness and the
evidence given in court under oath by the witness.

Witness Statement Contents

If the statement is not written out at the time of the interview with the witness and
in the presence of the witness it must reflect exactly the notes taken by the
investigator during the interview.

The witness should be invited to read and thereafter asked to sign the statement
noted to confirm the accuracy of its contents. This should particularly apply in
instances where it is suspected that the witness may want to go back on his
statement at a subsequent date.

It is important that care should be taken to ensure that proper personal particulars
are noted.

The statement must be factual and comprehensive. Full information of the likely
evidence of the witness must be included whether or not it is going to be of
benefit to the prosecution/defence.

Almost inevitably the content of the statement should be in chronological order.

In appropriate circumstances, the relationship of the witness with any other person
involved in the case should be included, e.g. brother, employee.

In appropriate cases the physical location of the witness to the incident must be
included, e.g. "across the road"; "from first floor window".

Where a witness is speaking to a production, (known in England and Wales as an
exhibit) this must be shown in the margin, e.g.:

LABEL PRODUCTION Video Recorder

and the fact that the witness has signed and dated the label included. In the case
of documentary productions the appropriate entry will be:

PRODUCTION Invoice.

The production should be shown to the witness and its importance and content
explained by the witness in the statement (see later at para 3.12).

The ability of the witness to identify the accused should be included as the last
paragraph.

22
(10)

WITN10510102

WITN10510102

The statement taken should include in the report any other information that would
be helpful, e.g. "witness is very hard of hearing" or "witness has poor command of
English language" or "has a stammer" etc. This is especially important if an
interpreter is necessary. The language should be specified and the particulars of
the interpreter used should be provided.

3.17.8 Agency Employee Witness Statement Form

The contents of the Agency employee witness statement should follow as near as may be
the above guidelines, but emphasising qualifications and experience.

3.17.9 Method of Taking the Statement

As a generalisation, the following method should be adopted when taking a statement
from a witness:

()
(2)

(5)

(6)

(7)

(8)

If necessary, explain the nature of the enquiry you are making.

Where possible, conduct the interview without the presence of others (except in
the case of child witnesses) to avoid interruption and witnesses influencing each
other. Other distractions such as TV, traffic noise, etc, should also be avoided.

Get the witness to relax by using introductory pleasantries, if appropriate in the
circumstances.

Depending on the circumstances and the type of witness, it is often beneficial to
ask the witness to relate what has occurred in his own words before attempting to
make a written account in an official notebook. This allows an overall view to be
gained of what took place and in what sequence without inhibiting the witness by
producing an official notebook. The statement taker at this stage should keep an
open mind on the subject. Conjecture based on incomplete information may
seriously hamper the enquiry.

During this stage the witness may be questioned to bring out all of the details
relevant to the case. This should be done in an agreeable way, and not in the
manner of an inquisition. Leading questions that tend to suggest the required
answer should not be used, as the answers expected by the investigator may not
describe what actually happened.

Thereafter, the statement should be noted and should include the necessary
information for completing a standard statement form.

The text of the statement should be written in the first person, e.g. "I was driving
east when I saw..."

The facts should, as far as possible, be taken down in chronological order, using
the words and expressions used by the witness. It should not be converted into

23
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

precise official language. Further questioning whilst writing the statement will
probably be necessary to ensure total accuracy. Vague generalisations should not
be accepted without attempting to get the witness to express himself more clearly
using further questioning.

(9) Once the statement has been written it should be read over to the witness, who
should be asked if he wishes to amend or add to it in any way.

3.17.10 Types of Witnesses

The Helpful Witness

Most members of the public are happy to assist with any enquiries. They may be only
too willing to provide a statement outlining events.

The Reluctant Witness

There are going to be occasions when a witness will either refuse or be reluctant to give a
full statement. Apart from some statutory exceptions, the police have no power to require
a person to provide a statement. Some Agencies may be in a different position and
should be familiar with their own powers.

It is on these occasions that an investigator's communicative skills, which will develop
with dealings with the public, are of use and eventually co-operation from the reluctant
witness may result.

The Procurator Fiscal may precognosce and compel a witness to attend at the office for
questioning. Precognition is a process where the Procurator Fiscal undertakes his own
investigation into allegations of an offence. As part of this process the Procurator Fiscal
can interview witnesses independently, and check the available evidence. This is
normally undertaken in more serious cases.

The Lying Witness

On the discovery of a witness lying it may be advantageous not to intervene immediately.
It can be more productive to allow the interview to continue with both careful and
detailed questioning.

One lie often leads to another lie, and the lies can be identified as such. On some
occasions, the lies will have been told to cover up some criminal action, which may later
be exposed when the witness is at last challenged regarding the lies. In most cases the
statements of two persons witnessing the same incident will differ widely on some facts,
whilst at the same time being truthfully related. If, on the other hand, the statements are
found to coincide with remarkable precision, the possibility of collusion and possible lies
should not be overlooked.

During an investigation the telling of lies by a witness can, in some circumstances, be
criminal. This may involve a charge of attempting to pervert the course of justice.

24
3.17.11 Example of Standard Statement Form

STATEMENT OF WITNESS
SUIMAME o.oo ees eesc cess eess ees eeseeseeeseseeeseeesseees Maiden Name ............c00sccesseesseeseeeseeeees
Foremame(S) .........c.cccsccesesesssseseseseseseseseececeeseseseseseseseseseeeeeee Tithe oo. ceeeeeee
Address (Home) ........cccccccsssssssseesssessssesesvesesessesceseseareneaceresssnsnsseessseaneneseeteasaneneseeneeaneeeee
cecesescesesesesuesessesesssucueseesesesusseseeseaesusneseeesaesnsneaeeteeeansneeceteneees Tel NO ooeeeeeeeeceeneeees
Address (BuSiMeSS) ..........cccccsccsessssesesseseesessesesesnsseeseuesssnesseeeussesusseeeessssnesesestssesnsseeeeeeees
Tel No
Place and Date of Birth oo... cesses esseceeeesees sees sess eeeseeseessneesesiessuesenseeeneeensneeees

OCCUPATION oo... eeesecesseseessceeesseeecseeessnsressnseesseseesseseessesaceessuceecsneeresneeessnsressesresseeeeeetee®

"Care of" Address (¢.g. students, CtC) 2... seeeseecceccccesessesessesesesesesesestesesteeenseseseseaeanes

Occupation ..

Known as 6 Alias oo... cece cece eeseeseeseeeeeeeeeeesesresseeseeiseesenerseenenetensneeessiseessnseessesensinenees

Taken Dy ooeeeeeecceececeeeeceeeeeseeeeseeeesesnssesesseetsneeesensees Agency/Dept .........ceceee
At (Time) 0.0... cceeeececeeeereeteereeneereeeess On (Day, Dat) oo. cecceccececeeeeeeeeenereeneeees
At (Location) oo... ecceeceseeeeeeseeseseeesesneseseeseanseseesesseaesneseseesesessseseseensneeeseeteensneee ees

I was alone/accompanied by
when the statement was noted. It was/was not signed by the witness.

States:

25

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3.18 List of Productions

Relevant productions may take many forms, e.g. photographs, letters, plans, sketches, and
videos (if at all possible with a factual commentary and not opinion). Where possible the
productions should be dated and signed by the appropriate witnesses and have labels
attached to them which indicate precisely the description of the item and where and when
the productions were obtained and from whom they were obtained. This is crucial for the
witness to be able to identify the production later. Where a number of items are taken in
evidence at the same time they should each be given a unique reference number, as this
will facilitate the identification of the precise item if for example subsequent examination
or analysis is required.

There should be reference to the obtaining of the productions in the statement of each
witness who was present.

Productions ought not to be interfered with in any way by, for example, marking the face
of a document by writing on it with an ink highlighter.

The investigator should lodge original documents with the Procurator Fiscal for
subsequent production at the trial, and copies of all relevant documentary productions
should normally be submitted with the report unless this is impracticable. If original
documents have been lost or destroyed, the reason for this should be explained, so that
steps can be taken to correct, if possible, the deficiency. In all cases involving a search
warrant, the principal warrant should be sent to the Procurator Fiscal with the report and a
copy of the warrant should be enclosed within the report.

Notes taken by a witness at the time of an event or made as soon as practicable
afterwards, can be used as productions and referred to for the purpose of refreshing the
memory of that witness. A subsequently typed statement cannot be used in court when
the witness is giving evidence.

In general, photographs are very helpful in presenting a case in court. Most Sheriffs
appreciate a photograph rather than a lengthy verbal description. Photographs should be
numbered, dated and signed by the witness taking them. All productions should be listed
in chronological order and numbered in pencil.

Statements should clearly specify which witness speaks to each production but where
there are a large number of productions it may be helpful to also add this to the list of
productions, e.g.

1. plan (witnesses A and B)

2. photographs (witnesses A and D)
3. invoice (witness E)

4. letter (witness B).

26
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

Care should be taken when handling productions, not only to preserve their evidential
value, but also to protect all persons who handle the articles during the investigation and
prosecution of the case. This is particularly important when dealing with contaminated or
otherwise dangerous articles.

All those handling productions should be mindful of health and safety considerations and
should ensure that productions are carefully and adequately packaged and, where
appropriate, properly labelled as “HAZARDOUS” or “DANGEROUS, to alert others to
the potential risks involved in handling these articles. Procurators Fiscal may not wish to
have certain hazardous or dangerous productions lodged with them in advance of a trial
and consultation should take place with Procurators Fiscal at the time of reporting to
determine the arrangements for these productions.

3.19 Note on Law

Any particular matters of law, which the Agency feels should be explained, can be
referred to. Appeal procedures might have been available to the accused but he may have
ignored these and therefore effectively left little option but prosecution. Those should be
mentioned with any relevant case law known, including any English cases (see paragraph
2.5 above).

27
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

4, PREPARATION FOR TRIAL

4.1 Any person accused of an offence has a right to have the evidence against him
tested in a court of law. Generally, he need not submit a defence and the prosecution must
prove beyond a reasonable doubt that an offence was committed and the accused is, in
law, guilty of that offence. It is necessary therefore to regard every detection as
potentially a case that will come to trial and prepare to the same high standard in all
cases. It is also relevant to note that the reporting agency must be able to satisfy the
Procurator Fiscal that the available evidence would be likely to persuade a court before
he or she will commence a prosecution against an accused person. It is important that
each case is given the same diligent and careful approach so that the best evidence can be
presented to the Procurator Fiscal and the court.

4.2 Use of Notes

Preparation for trial begins at the moment suspicions are aroused that an offence has been
committed. At that stage, such detailed notes as are necessary or practicable should be
taken by the investigator concerned. A notebook or other contemporaneous notes are the
only documents that may be taken into court and referred to by a witness when he or she
is giving evidence. A witness cannot refer to the original statement provided to the
Procurator Fiscal whilst in the witness box. Witnesses will have to balance carefully the
need to stop and take notes against the need to ensure that the salient facts that may be
referred to in court are adequately recorded in a notebook. It is especially important to
ensure that the actual words of the caution, and any response thereafter by the accused,
are recorded. This will include any answers to questions put by investigating officers and
any statement made by the accused. The attitude of an alleged offender to the formal
caution and intimation to him of the offence of which he is suspected is valuable to the
Procurator Fiscal in developing the case in court.

It should be remembered that the silence of an accused cannot corroborate guilt. It
should be noted that any remarks made by the accused before caution should not be
omitted from a witness statement. These may have relevance to the confirmation that an
offence had taken place and although they may be admissible as evidence the Procurator
Fiscal will need to be aware of anything that transpired during the investigation which is
relevant and which led to the investigator concerned believing that an offence had been
committed.

The question of when to caution a suspected person appears to cause those in specialist
reporting Agencies some concern. The answer to that question is to apply the test of
fairness as can be seen from the decision of Pennycuik v Lees, a copy of which is in
Appendix 4 to this paper.

In situations where the suspect's guilt is not clear it is permissible to ask questions prior to
caution to find out relevant information. It may be that an innocent explanation is
forthcoming which requires to be checked out; on the other hand if incriminating
admissions are made it will be necessary to caution the accused before proceeding further
with any questioning.

28
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

Care should be taken to ensure that all the essential evidence can be corroborated and that
the name of a witness or witnesses who can corroborate evidence is given in any
statement.

A corroborating witness should be aware of what the investigating officer is doing so that
he can provide evidence that will be acceptable to the court. The defence may attack the
corroborating witness and if they are successful in destroying his or her credibility or
reliability it may leave the court with the evidence of one witness only and that would not
be sufficient to meet the general requirement in Scots law of corroboration. That is not to
say that a witness should exclude from his statement relevant information that is not
corroborated but any such evidence should be accompanied by a clear indication that only
one witness was involved so that the Procurator Fiscal is aware of the fact.

4.3 Statements

Statements serve two purposes. First, they are the raw material from which the
Procurator Fiscal prepares a case for trial and as such provide him or her with an
indication of the evidence each witness can give which he or she will use for reference
during court proceedings. Their primary purpose is to indicate to the prosecutor that an
offence has been committed and that sufficient evidence is available to hold the
reasonable assumption that a conviction can be obtained and therefore a complaint can be
issued against the alleged offender. Statements should set out clearly all the available
evidence within the knowledge of the witness which is relevant to the offence. As a
general rule witnesses should include too much rather than too little.

Secondly, at a trial the Procurator Fiscal will work from the statement to determine the
questions he or she will ask of a witness and there may be little scope for that witness to
add to the evidence provided in his or her statement when giving testimony in court
without running the risk of disrupting the presentation of the case and jeopardising the
outcome. If relevant evidence is omitted from a statement this may result in that
evidence not being presented for consideration by the court.

Wide discretion must always be available to any witness to report a particular case in his
or her own words according to the circumstances. It is worth repeating that no case can
be treated with any less care and attention to detail than another as the witness concerned
may be required to give his or her evidence in court.

Statements should not be regarded as the witness' only opportunity to record the salient
facts of the investigation of an offence. Whilst every care should be taken to record all
the relevant information, if it occurs to a witness at a later date that he or she has omitted
material that would be useful or if expansion on any part of the statement is worthwhile a
supplementary report should be submitted. Additional information or clarification of
statements can be submitted to the Procurator Fiscal as soon as possible. It is preferable
that this is done rather than risk losing the opportunity to improve the case against an
alleged offender.

29
4.4 Availability to Attend Court

Witnesses should indicate in their statements if for any good reason they will be unable to
attend court at a future date so that the Procurator Fiscal can take this into account when
arranging the trial.

4.5 Detrimental Evidence

Finally it is important that material which may be detrimental to the prospect of a
conviction is not omitted from the statement. In order to perform his or her function
properly the Procurator Fiscal must be aware of all the evidence which has been gathered
regardless of whether it contributes to the evidence against an accused person or is in his
or her favour. Procurators Fiscal proceed in the public interest which necessarily connotes
a broader approach than the wishes of the reporting Agency alone.

30

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
5. ACTION FOLLOWING SUBMISSION OF STATEMENTS

5.1 Once all the statements are available the case will be prepared for submission to
the appropriate Procurator Fiscal. At any stage up to the date of trial investigators may be
asked to submit supplementary statements or to expand their descriptions of the events.

The Procurator Fiscal will decide on the basis of the available evidence in the statements
submitted to him if a complaint should be issued against the accused or if there is
insufficient evidence to justify that action. He may also request further enquiries to be
made if necessary. Reporting agencies should pursue these inquiries if so requested. If a
complaint is issued and the accused pleads not guilty a trial will be arranged. The
defence agents may seek to interview prosecution witnesses to find out the strength of the
case against the accused. If the accused does not change his plea a trial will take place.

31

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
6. ROLE OF THE PROCURATOR FISCAL

6.1 Almost all criminal proceedings in Scotland are by means of public prosecution
rather than by private prosecution by individuals or departments. The Procurator Fiscal is
entirely independent of all reporting agencies including the police and the decision
whether or not to institute proceedings is entirely a matter for him or her. That decision
is a legal and a professional one.

6.2 Before any case can proceed the Procurator Fiscal must satisfy himself that an
offence has been committed and that the alleged offender committed that offence and is
therefore liable to prosecution. He or she must also be satisfied that there is sufficient
evidence available to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that an offence had been
committed. The Procurator Fiscal's powers are wide ranging. He or she may:

(i) decide that it is not in the public interest to prosecute;

(ii) issue a warning letter or consider some other alternative to prosecution;

(iii) I mark any case "no proceedings" or desert the prosecution case at any stage
of the proceedings; or

(iv) I make his or her own enquiries into an alleged offence and, in particular,
interview witnesses either himself or before the Sheriff under oath. It
follows therefore that the investigative stages of a case need not end when
a report is submitted and while investigators should always endeavour to
submit comprehensive reports there may be occasions when further
enquiry is necessary, either by the reporting agency or the Procurator
Fiscal.

6.3. The Procurator Fiscal is only liable for the costs of analyses and investigations in
connection with a case in which he has decided to take proceedings. The costs of any
analyses or investigations prior to the Procurator Fiscal's decision to take proceedings
must be borne by the agency from which the report originates.

32

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

7 CONTACT WITH PROCURATOR FISCAL BEFORE TRIAL

7.1 Experience suggests that normally the Procurator Fiscal will accept the evidence
that is provided and will not require to see witnesses before a trial. An investigator must
therefore ensure that all the relevant evidence is contained in the statements and, if
necessary, any salient material that has been omitted is covered by providing a
supplementary statement. Witnesses should not rely on the court appearance as an
opportunity to expand on statements since it is important that the Procurator Fiscal should
be aware of all the evidence which the witness is able to give so that he can decide how
best to present that evidence to the court.

33
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

8. DEFENCE PRECOGNITION

8.1 Given that the Procurator Fiscal does not normally need to see witnesses prior to
trial it follows that the first contact with a witness subsequent to giving a statement to the
Agency may be made by a defence solicitor. The Lord Advocate has instructed
Procurators Fiscal that they must be as helpful as possible in advising the defence of the
strength of the Crown case and the defence will be given a full account of all the evidence
available. The defence may nevertheless wish to contact the witnesses in any case which
goes to trial to find out about the testimony which witnesses can give. Anyone who has
witnessed a breach of the law has a duty to give information and the defence is entitled to
seek factual information from any prosecution witness. However, a witness is not
required to submit any written statement to the defence and, in particular, should not
supply a copy of his formal statement unless specifically requested to do so by the
Procurator Fiscal.

8.2 If possible, upon receiving a request from a defence solicitor a meeting should be
arranged. It would be wrong for a public servant to adopt an unco-operative attitude, for
example by offering a difficult place or time for the meeting.

8.3. When the discussion with a defence agent takes place witnesses may find the
following advice useful:

(i) witnesses ought not to supply written statements nor offer copies of the
statements which they provided to the Procurator Fiscal, although this is
actually now a common practice;

(ii) witnesses should not offer opinions or speculate on matters outside their
knowledge. Defence questions should be specific and witnesses should not
refuse to answer any reasonable questions. If the appropriate response is,
"T do not know" investigators should say so;

(iii) do not deliberately mislead the defence agent or fail to correct a
misunderstanding which he may have taken from what has been said. A
concise and clear account of the evidence which witnesses can provide
may lead to a guilty plea being submitted;

(iv) witnesses should do all they can to prepare themselves before speaking to
defence agents. The first contact with a witness may determine to a large
extent the attitude of the defence when the officer appears in the witness
box and a clear and positive response to any question during defence
precognition may help to prevent unnecessary cross-examination in court.

(v) witnesses should not be subjected to cross-examination during a defence
precognition and if the witness feels that the defence solicitor is testing his
or her evidence by, for example, repeatedly asking about a particular
incident the witness should say, "I have already answered that question"
and refuse to discuss the matter further. Care should be exercised in this

34
(vi)

and witnesses should ensure that they have given as full an account as is
necessary to convey a clear understanding of the point at issue.

if discussing a case jogs the memory of the witness and it becomes
apparent in the course of such an interview that the statement to the
Procurator Fiscal could usefully be expanded a supplementary statement
must be prepared and submitted to the Procurator Fiscal as soon as
possible.

35

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

9. COURT PROCEDURE
9.1 Arrival at Court

The citation form will advise witnesses of the time and date of trial and witnesses should
arrange to arrive at court in good time. Generally witnesses are asked to arrive at the
court before 10.00 am. Special arrangements are frequently necessary for witnesses with
particular needs, e.g. the aged and infirm or where a large number of witnesses come
from the same office or shop. Some types of court business may take priority over other
cases and trials are often not commenced until this and other more routine business which
can be processed quickly is conducted by the Sheriff. Witnesses will be directed to the
appropriate witness room where they should remain until called to give evidence or
otherwise excused.

9.2 Contact with the Procurator Fiscal

If it is necessary to speak to the Procurator Fiscal, for example to leave items which are to
be lodged as productions before the trial, an arrangement should be made in advance. On
days when the court is sitting the Procurator Fiscal may be very busy preparing for other
cases and it is advisable to contact him or her beforehand if you need to see him or her.

9.3 Early Departure of Witnesses

It is not unusual for a trial to last more than one day but in those cases courts will make
every effort to hear all the evidence of prosecution witnesses. However, if there is a good
and compelling reason why a particular witness should be heard at an early stage in the
trial to ensure that he can be released that day he should contact the Procurator Fiscal and
explain fully the reason.

9.4 Order of Appearance of Witnesses

The presentation of the Crown case is entirely within the control of the Procurator Fiscal.
Generally witnesses are called in the same order as they were involved in the
chronological sequence of events but the Procurator Fiscal's only consideration is to
ensure that evidence is led in a manner which will enable the Sheriff to achieve an
understanding of the events and how they transpired and the Procurator Fiscal may decide
to produce witnesses in a different way.

9.5 The Oath

At the appropriate time witnesses will be called from the waiting room by a court room
officer and taken into the court and shown into the witness box. Immediately on arrival in
the witness box the Sheriff will administer the oath. To avoid embarrassment witnesses
wishing, for religious or other grounds, to affirm rather than take the usual form of the
oath should advise the court officer of their wishes before entering the court.

36
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

9.6 Court Officials and Order of Questioning

The Sheriff will be immediately recognisable in any courtroom as he or she sits in a
prominent place. The Procurator Fiscal can be identified, as he or she will always begin
the questioning of any prosecution witness. Once he or she has completed his questions
the defence solicitor is given the opportunity to question the witness.

The Procurator Fiscal then has a further opportunity to ask questions on the matters raised
by the defence. Any dispute about whether the questions asked are relevant or not will be
settled by the Sheriff but witnesses should always answer any question asked unless
advised not to respond by the Sheriff. If clarification is needed the Sheriff may ask his or
her own questions. Witnesses should be aware that as the Sheriff listens to the evidence
he or she takes notes of the proceedings and therefore may ask a witness to expand on the
answer to an earlier question put by the Procurator Fiscal or the defence.

The Procurator Fiscal and the defence agent will always give way to the Sheriff and
witnesses should therefore concentrate on what the Sheriff has asked. If he has been
interrupted the Procurator Fiscal or the defence agent will put their questions to the
witness again once the Sheriff's query has been answered. It is possible if more than one
accused is involved there may be two or more defence agents. The only other court
officer likely to be present is the Sheriff Clerk who sits in front of the Sheriff in the well
of the court.

9.7 Examination of Witnesses

As each case will be different there is very little guidance that can be given to witnesses
about what to say about a particular type of offence in court but the following will apply
in each case brought to trial.

9.8 Initial Questions

The first few questions put by the Procurator Fiscal will lead the witness to put before the
court the professional qualifications to give evidence at that trial. As mentioned before
the first paragraph of any statement submitted by a witness should include all relevant
personal details and experience together with a brief note of how he or she came to be
involved in the detection so that the Procurator Fiscal will be able in the initial stages of
examination of a witness to draw that information from him for the benefit of the court. It
is in the best interests of a witness to include in his statement all the relevant details so
that at that stage he will be faced with questions which can be answered easily and thus
be given time to settle into the unfamiliar circumstances of the witness box.

9.9 Development of Case
The development of the Crown case must be left in the control of the Procurator Fiscal.
Witnesses should not expand unnecessarily on specific questions asked unless it is clear

that he or she is being given scope to do so. The Procurator Fiscal will be aware of the
evidence a witness can provide from study of the statement and any supplementary

37
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

statement provided and witnesses should be given such details as are necessary to answer
specific questions. In particular witnesses must ensure that they do not go beyond what
they can reasonably substantiate by their own experience or qualifications. Witnesses
may be asked to identify an accused by actually pointing to him or her and to justifying
that identification.

9.10 Provocative Questions

Defence solicitors will often ask provocative questions intended to disconcert witnesses.
Witnesses should remember that the defence are entitled to test the evidence given.
Allegations of harassment of the accused or criticism of the process of investigating an
alleged offence or any other provocative statements which may be delivered forcibly
should be met with a calm response and witnesses should concentrate on answering the
question rather than reacting to the manner in which it is asked.

9.11 Questions to Corroborating Officers

Defence solicitors may attack the witness who provides corroboration and care should be
taken that any witness who provides corroboration should be aware of why particular
steps were taken and therefore be able to respond meaningfully to defence questioning at
trial.

9.12 Opinions

If a witness is asked to express an opinion care should be taken to ensure that the court is
given a reasonable assessment of the balance between possibility and probability. If the
appropriate response is to concede that a particular motive or result was a remote
possibility the witness should say so and be prepared to support his view. It would be
wrong and misleading for a witness to concede a possibility suggested by the defence
without giving the court the full benefit of his experience to qualify that answer. On
occasion the witness may be forced to answer “yes” or “no” to a particular question but
otherwise every opportunity to justify the response should be taken and to provide the
court with a better appreciation of whether what has been suggested is reasonable or fair.
Witnesses should not be tempted to provide replies based on what they would have done
in a hypothetical situation rather than what they can clearly recall or what is recorded in
their statement or notebook. If there is a routine procedure to be followed which was
carried out that should be recorded in the witness's statement and in his personal
notebook for reference at the trial.

9.13 Reference to Notes

In Scotland witnesses generally cannot refer to their statements in the witness box. The
only documents that may be referred to are those that are before the court as productions
or contemporaneous notes and witnesses should always ask the permission of the court
before referring to notes made in a personal notebook at the time of detection or incident.
If the permission of the court is sought to refer to notes witnesses will be asked

38
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

specifically if the notes were taken at the time and will only be allowed to consult them if
they were.

9.14 Identification of Productions

In a case where items of real evidence were seized witnesses should be prepared to
identify the articles which should be clearly labelled and signed by the witness
beforehand. This may entail the witness leaving the witness box to walk to the place in
the courtroom where the items are displayed and identifying his signature on the label
attached. Witnesses may also be required to leave the witness box to point to places on
charts or other productions before the court. It should be borne in mind that any
demonstration or identification of articles in court is made for the benefit of the Sheriff
and must be given in such a way as it is clear to the Sheriff rather than addressed to the
Procurator Fiscal or the defence solicitor.

9.15 Technical Terms

Witnesses should avoid using jargon or terms which are not easily understood by the
Sheriff. For example, in fishery cases witnesses should be able to give the scientific name
of fish. Often in fisheries legislation it is necessary to provide that illegally caught fish
are of a particular species and witnesses should be familiar with the scientific name and
be able to identify any sample brought to court.

9.16 Permission to remain in Court after Giving Evidence

Once a witness has given his evidence he may either leave the court room or take a place
in the public gallery at the back of the court. In cases where the accused is facing more
than one charge and witnesses are required to give evidence of more than one incident in
which they are involved the practice is that all the evidence which that witness can give
will be heard in one visit to the witness box rather than hearing all the evidence of one
detection then recalling the witnesses again to give evidence about a second or
subsequent incident. In these circumstances witnesses must take extra care in preparing
for the trial to ensure that the incidents or detections are not confused. Detailed notes
taken at the time of the detections in a personal notebook which can be produced in court
are invaluable in such cases.

9.17 Form of Addressing the Sheriff

The correct form of address for the Sheriff is "My Lord" or "My Lady" whichever is
appropriate. The correct form of address for Stipendiary Magistrates and Justices is
"Your Honour".

9.18 Verdict and Sentence

At the conclusion of the trial the Sheriff may deliver his decision immediately, retire to

consider a verdict or defer judgement to a later date. If the Sheriff adjourns the case to
consider the evidence further witnesses are not required to attend when the case is

39
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

brought back into court unless specifically requested to do so. The Sheriff may find the
accused Not Guilty or Guilty or find the charge Not Proven, the first and third verdicts
both being verdicts of acquittal. If the Sheriff finds that the case against the accused has
been proved the following options are open to him:

(i) Absolute Discharge: this disposal means that the court has stopped short of
convicting an offender but makes a finding that it is satisfied that the
accused committed the offence;

(ii) I Admonition: if an offender is admonished it is recorded as a conviction
against him but no penalty is imposed;

(iii) Fine: fines must be related to an offender's ability to pay and the court will
take account of any plea in mitigation.

The court also has wide ranging powers of sentence to impose, for example compensation
orders, community service orders and imprisonment.

40
10. JURY TRIALS

10.1 The importance of some of the crimes or offences reported by specialist agencies
is now such that the Crown may opt to proceed by solemn procedure. That means in
practice that the accused has trial by jury. Trial by Jury is proceeded by investigation by
the Procurator Fiscal, usually in the form of precognition. Witnesses are interviewed to
determine their evidence. This is rare for summary cases. The decision to proceed to trial
by jury is solely for the Crown and not for the accused. The foregoing description of trial
procedure applies equally to trial by jury and the presence of a jury of 15 citizens induces
a greater sensitivity by all. On conviction the sentencing powers of the Judge (in the High
Court of Justiciary) or the Sheriff (in the Sheriff Court) are greater.

41

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

11. APPEALS

11.1 The Crown in the event of an acquittal may consider an appeal on a matter of law
or in regard to an unduly lenient sentence.

If an appeal is taken then it may be possible to show a copy of the draft Stated Case

which sets out the grounds of appeal to the reporting agency if time permits. This is
especially so with technical matters relating to the agency’s area of expertise

42
APPENDIX 1
PROCURATOR FISCAL SERVICE INFORMATION
Procurator Fiscal Areas and Area Procurators Fiscal
(Italics indicate the area office)
Argyll_and_ Clyde: Paisley, Campbeltown, Dumbarton, Dunoon, Greenock, Oban,
Rothesay

John Watt

Ayrshire: Kilmarnock, Ayr
John Dunn

Central: Stirling, Alloa, Falkirk
Geraldine Watt

Dumfries and Galloway: Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Stranraer
Tom Dysart

Fife: Kirkcaldy, Cupar, Dunfermline
Cameron Ritchie

Glasgow and Strathkelvin: Glasgow
Catherine Dyer

Grampian: Aberdeen, Banff, Elgin, Peterhead, Stonehaven
Morag McLaughlin

Highlands _and_ Islands: Inverness, Dingwall, Dornoch, Fort William, Kirkwall,
Lerwick, Lochmaddy, Portree, Stornoway, Tain, Wick
Andrew Laing

Lanarkshire: Hamilton, Lanark, Airdrie
Janet Cameron

Lothian and Borders: Edinburgh, Duns, Haddington, Jedburgh, Linlithgow, Peebles,
Selkirk
Frank Mulholland

Tayside: Dundee, Arbroath, Forfar, Perth
David J Howdle

43

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

CROWN OFFICE AND PROCURATOR FISCAL SERVICE DIRECTORY

Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Area PF. Atholl House, 84-88 Guild
Aberdeen 01224- Morag McLaughlin Street, AB11 6QA 01224-585550
585111
District PF DX No. AB67
Kate Frame
Airdrie 01236- District PF Sheriff Court, 87A Graham 01236-747677
747027 Ann Donaldson Street, ML6 6EE
DX No. 570417
Alloa 01259- Sheriff Court , FK10 1HR 01259-219577
214561/
721736 DX No. 560437
Arbroath 01241- District PF Aitken House, 15 Hill Street 01241-430052
876555 I Elisabeth Miller DD1 1BR
DX No. 530443
Ayr 01292- District PF: 29 Miller Road, KA7 2AX 01292-611415
267481/ I I Murray
260748 DX No. AY21
Banff 01261- District PF: Sheriff Court, AB45 1AU 01261-818282
812131/ I Sandy Hutchison
815318 DX No. 521326
Campbeltown 01586- District PF Sheriff Court, PA28 6AN 01586-551180
553383
Cupar 01334- District PF Sheriff Court KY15 4LS 01334-656041
654991 EB Russell DX No. 560553

WITN10510102

WITN10510102
Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Dingwall 01349- District PF Sheriff Court, Ferry Road 01349-862715
862122/ I R Urquhart TV15 9QX
864058
DX No. 520587
Dumbarton 01389- District PF St Mary's Way G82 INL 01389-731182
730972 I Andrew Millar
DX No. 500598
Area PF
Dumfries 01387- Tom Dysart 44 Buccleuch Street DG1 2AP I 01387-259356
263034
District PF: DX No. 580628
J Service
Dundee 01382- Area PF: Caledonian House, 01382-202719
227535 I David Howdle Greenmarket
DD1 1QX
District PF:
Betty Bott DX No. DD35
Dunfermline 01383- District PF: Sheriff Court, Carnegie Drive 01383-624828
723688 Andrew Grant KY12 7HW
DX No. DF19
Dunoon 01369- District PF Sheriff Court PA23 8BQ 01369-702191
702292 I DL Webster
DX No. 591657
Duns 01361- Scottish Borders PF I Sheriff Court TD11 3DU 01361-882060
882345 Graham Fraser

DX No. 581205

45
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Edinburgh 0131- Area PF: 29 Chambers Street EH1 ILD I 0131-220 4669
226 :Frank Mulholland
4962 DX No. 550315 Edinburgh 37
District PF
Lesley Thomson
Elgin 01343- District PF: Sheriff Court [V30 1BU 01343-544146
547133/ I Sharon Ralph
543594 DX No. 520661
Falkirk 01324- District PF Mansionhouse Road, Camelon I 01324-628841
638396 I Kenny Donnelly FKI4LW
DX No. FAI1
Forfar 01307- District PF Sheriff Court DD8 3LA 01307-463589
463296 I Elisabeth Miller
DX No. 530681
Fort William 01397- District PF Sheriff Court PH33 6BR 01397-701476
703874 I Alison Wyllie
DX No. 531404
Glasgow 0141- Area PF: 10 Ballater Street, GS 9PS 0141-418 5177
429 Catherine Dyer
5566 DX NoS01557
Greenock/ 01475- District PF Sheriff Court, Nelson Street 01475-724488
Rothesay 728316 I Anne Marie Hicks PAIS ITR
DX No. GR20
Haddington 01620- District PF 15 Lodge Street EH41 3DX 01620-822940
825761 Lesley Thomson

DX No. 540735

WITN10510102
WITN10510102

Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Hamilton 01698- Area PF: Cameronian House, 3/5 01698-422929
284000 I Janet Cameron Almada Street ML3 0HG
District PF: DX No.HA7
David Spiers
Inverness 01463- Area PF: 2 Baron Taylor's Street 01463-711187
224858 A Laing IVIIQL
District PF: DX No. IN26
Gary Aitken
Jedburgh 01835- Scottish Borders PF I Sheriff Court TD8 6AR 01835-8645 14
862345 I Graham Fraser
DX No. 581221
Kilmarnock 01563- Area PF: St Marnock Street KA] 1DZ I 01563-571786
536211 John Dunn
DX No. KK17
District PF
Les Brown
Kirkcaldy 01592- Area PF: Wing D, Carlyle House, 01592-261120
268661 C Ritchie Carlyle Road,
Kirkcaldy, KY1 1DB
District PF:
J Robertson DX No. KY18
Kirkcudbright I 01557- I District PF TEMPORARILY CLOSED - I 91557-31764
331403 I ASKennedy OFFICE :
Sheriff Court DG6 4JW
DX No. 580814
Kirkwall 01856- District PF Sheriff Court KW15 1PD 01856-870505
873273 I Susan Foard

47
WITN10510102

WITN10510102
Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Lanark 01555- District PF: Sheriff Court House, 24 Hope I 01555-663716
661669 S R Houston Street, ML11 7NE
DX No. 570835
Lerwick 01595- District PF Sheriff Court ZE1 OHD 01595-695152
692808 I Susan Foard
Linlithgow 01506- District PF Stuart House, 181/201 High 01506-670102
844556 R Stott Street EH49 7EN
DX No. 570884
Lochmaddy 01876- District PF Sheriff Court HS6 SAE 01876-500432
500243 D Teale (Stornoway)
Oban 01631- District PF Third Floor, Boswell House, 01631-570352
564088/ I Clifford Most Argyll Square PA34 4BD
564921
DX No. OB9
Paisley 0141- Area PF: 1 Love Street PA3 2DA 0141-887 6172
887 J Watt
5225 DX No. PASO
District PF:
Moira Ramage
(Interim)
Perth 01738- District PF 82 Tay Street PH2 8NN 01738-626673
637272 D Griffiths
DX No. PE31
Peterhead 01779- District PF 70 St Peter Street AB4 6QD 01779-490284
476628 I AB Hutchison

DX No. 521375

WITN10510102
WITN10510102

Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Portree 01478- District PF Sheriff Court IV5S1 9EH 01478-613499
612510 I Roderick Urquhart
(Dingwall)
Selkirk/ 01750- Scottish Borders PF I Sheriff Court TD7 4LE 01750-21113
Peebles 20345 Graham Fraser
DX No. 581013
Stirling 01786- Area PF: Carseview House, Castle 01786-446823
462021 Geraldine Watt Business Park, FK9 4SW
District PF: DX No. ST16
Ruth McQuaid
01569-765614
Stonehaven 01569- District PF Sheriff Court AB39 2JD
762048 I EK Barbour
DX No. 521026
Stornoway 01851- District PF Sheriff Court Buildings, Lewis I 01851-704618
703439 D Teale Street, HS1 2JF
Stranraer 01776- District PF Sheriff Court, DG9 7AA 01776-889465
704321 Kenny Grieve
DX No. 581259
Tain 01862- District PF 11 Stafford Street, [V19 1BP 01862-892883
892472 I AN Mac Donald
Wick 01955- District PF Sheriff Court, KW1 4AJ 01955-606507
602197
Crown Office 0131 Crown Agent 25 Chambers Street,
226 Norman McFadyen, Edinburgh, EH1 1LA
2626

DX No. 540310 Edinburgh 37

WITN10510102

WITN10510102
Office Tel No. I PF Name Address Fax No.
Inspectorate of I 0141 5th Floor, Corunna House, 29 I 0141 204 2538
Prosecutions 229 Cadogan Street, Glasgow,
for Scotland I 6200 G17 ILP

DX No. 512302

50
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

APPENDIX 2

HIGH COURT OF JUSTICIARY

OPINION OF THE COURT

delivered by

THE HONOURABLE LORD WEIR

in

NOTE OF APPEAL

by

ALAN MURRAY

Appellant

against

PROCURATOR FISCAL, GLASGOW

Respondent

51
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

3 October 1996

The appellant runs a family butchers business in Govan, Glasgow. It is an old established
business and from what we have been told there has been no trouble with the food
inspectors in the past. This was so until 26 June 1995 when, in the course of what we
were informed was a regular visit, one of the inspectors called and purchased mince
which turned out to have a preservative added. The consequence was that the appellant
was charged with selling to the prejudice of the inspector, who was the sampling officer,
1Ib of steak mince which was not of the nature or substance or quality demanded by the
purchaser in respect that it contained 1,600 mg per kilogram of the added preservative
sulphur dioxide. This was a contravention of Section 14 of the Food Safety Act 1990 and

Regulation 4 of the Preservatives in Food (Scotland) Regulations 1989 (as amended).

The Sheriff was in receipt of remarkably little information on which to form a judgement
as to what was the appropriate fine to impose for an offence of this kind and we have to
confess that we are not in a much better position despite the assistance afforded by Mr
Wheatley and the Advocate Depute. The simple fact is that preservative of this kind is
only allowed in sausage meat and is not allowed in steak mince. We were not told what
the nature and effect of the preservative in steak mince and it is very difficult to decide
how to assess the degree of seriousness of this offence. What, of course, cannot be
disregarded is that it was an offence to add preservative to steak mince and thereafter sell

it on the market.

What has been said on behalf of the appellant is that this addition to the mince in question
was not a deliberate act. It was done at a time when the appellant's father was absent from
the business and supervision was perhaps momentarily lacking. It was done, it was said,
on account of the mistake made by an employee. It that situation and bearing in mind the
fact that the appellant's business had never come to the adverse notice of the food

inspectors before, a fine of £1,500 which was imposed by the Sheriff was excessive.

52
The Sheriff did not enlighten us as to why he chose the figure of £1,500 as being the
appropriate sentence. He certainly did have in mind that the maximum penalty for this

offence is a fine not exceeding £20,000 or imprisonment for 6 months or both.

In our view, standing the paucity of information regarding the seriousness of this offence,
if it was serious, but bearing in mind that this was apparently done as the result of a
mistake and not as part of a deliberate course of conduct, and also bearing in mind the
good record of this butchers business, we are prepared to say that the fine of £1,500 was

excessive and we shall quash that and substitute for it a fine of £500.
We wish to add that the task of the Sheriff and indeed of ourselves would have been

easier if the Crown had provided further information concerning the nature of the offence

so that a proper assessment of its gravity could have been made.

53

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

APPENDIX 3

LORD ADVOCATE’S GUIDELINES TO CHIEF CONSTABLES

1. INVESTIGATION AND REPORTING OF RACIST CRIME
2. ASSESSMENT OF LANGUAGE NEEDS AND CULTURAL SENSITIVITIES
3. DEATH REPORTS AND ASSOCIATED CRIME REPORTS

INTRODUCTION

Lord Advocate's Guidelines dated May 2001, dealing with the investigation and
reporting of racist crime to Procurators Fiscal, have already been issued. This
consolidated guidance contains the earlier guidelines and provides further guidance
to the police in relation to issues of reporting of racist crime, assessment of language
needs and cultural sensitivities and the information which is required by
Procurators Fiscal from the police to ensure that liaison with bereaved relatives
takes place in a manner which is sensitive to their religious and cultural needs.

Both the recent review of casework conducted by the Crown Office Race Strategy Group
and the HMIC Report “Without Prejudice?” identified a number of areas where
improvements can be made in both the reporting by the police of racist crime and in the
information provided by the police to the Procurator Fiscal in cases:

eof racist crime;

¢ where victims, witnesses and/or the accused have particular needs arising from their
ethnic or cultural backgrounds and

e where the first or preferred language of the witnesses and/or accused is not English.

These guidelines have been drafted in light of the areas highlighted in the reviews by the
Crown and the police and also against the background of the requirements of the Race
Relations (Amendment) Act 2000.

INVESTIGATION AND REPORTING OF RACIST CRIME

Recommendation 12 of the Lawrence Inquiry Report by Sir William Macpherson states
that:

“A racist incident is any incident which is perceived to be racist by the victim or
any other person.”

The Scottish Executive has accepted this definition for the purposes of the reporting to,
and recording of, racist crime by the police. The definition does not alter the onus or the
standard of proof in criminal proceedings and it remains the case that the prosecutor
requires to be satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to proceed before criminal
proceedings in respect of allegedly racist crime may be taken against any individual.

54
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

It is of crucial importance however that the prosecutor is advised whether the victim or
any other person has perceived an incident to be racist.

The Lord Advocate therefore directs that, in the investigation of crime, police officers
must ascertain the perception of the victim and witnesses as to the motive for the crime’.
This must be fully investigated and clearly recorded. If racism is perceived to be a factor
by the victim or witnesses this should be investigated and evidence recorded. Police
officers should bear in mind that victims of racism may be reluctant to express their fears
or beliefs, including their belief that an incident has been motivated by racism, and that
victims reporting racism may often be doing so against a background of previously
unreported racism. It will be necessary for officers in such cases to make every effort to
ascertain the true perception of the victim as to the motive for the crime.

The Procurator Fiscal should always be advised in police reports of the perception of the
victim and witnesses as to motive. The Procurator Fiscal should always be advised of the
existence, and provided with a copy, of a racist incident monitoring form.

Bail/Custody/Use of Undertakings

It is important to ensure that prosecutors and courts are able to consider both requesting
and imposing appropriate special conditions of bail in cases of repeat offending or where
it appears that victims and witnesses may be at risk.

The Lord Advocate therefore directs that in cases of racist crime” accused persons should
be reported in custody where that is consistent with the Lord Advocate’s Guidelines on
Bail, which are already in existence. Further, where reporting in custody is not
appropriate in terms of the existing guidelines, accused persons should be liberated
subject to an undertaking to appear at court in early course unless there is a good reason
not to proceed in this way.

In cases of racist crime where an early arrest is not possible the Police should ensure that
an early report is submitted to the Procurator Fiscal in order that consideration may be
given to an application for a warrant to arrest.

In all cases Reporting Officers should provide an indication of the known language and
interpreting needs of the accused.

' Leading questions should not be used. Examples of appropriate questions include:
“Why did this happen?” or “What was the motive behind the incident?”

? Racist Crime should be interpreted to mean any case reported to Procurators Fiscal in
which the police have charged the accused with a statutory racial offence or aggravation
(including offences in terms of the Public Order Act 1986, SSOA of the Criminal Law
Consolidation (Scotland) Act 1995 and where the aggravation under S96 of the Crime
and Disorder Act 1998 has been used).

55
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

Impact of crime on victims

As with all crime, when reporting racist crime to Procurators Fiscal police officers should
include details of the impact of the crime on the victim. This should include information
such as: whether the victim is in a state of fear due to the crime; whether, for example the
victim is considering moving home due to the nature of the crime and any financial loss
sustained by the victim. Details of the impact of the crime on the victim's family and
community should also be provided where relevant.

ASSESSMENT OF LANGUAGE NEED AND CULTURAL SENSITIVITIES

Accused persons, Victims and Witnesses

In any case where it appears that the first language of the accused, victim or witnesses
may not be English, the accused, victim or witness should be asked to state their “first” or
preferred language should they be called to give evidence in court in due course. The
accused, victim or witness should also be asked whether correspondence and
documentation sent to them will require to be translated. The preference of the accused,
victim or witness should be included in the police report. The Reporting Officer should
also include an assessment as to whether the accused, victim or witness will require the
services of an interpreter in court and to have correspondence and relevant documentation
translated by the Procurator Fiscal.

The language and dialect required should be specified in the police report and in the full
statement of a witness’. If the Reporting Officer is in doubt as to whether an interpreter is
or is not required an interpreter should be provided by the police during the investigation
and the Procurator Fiscal advised of the view of the Reporting Officer. If, in the view of
the Reporting Officer, an interpreter will not be required, this should be specifically
stated.

In cases where an interpreter is required for court purposes (either because of the request
of the individual concerned or the view of the Reporting Officer) and it is necessary to
ensure that religious and cultural needs are respected, the Procurator Fiscal should be
advised of both the ethnic and religious background of the individual who requires
interpreting services.

If it has been necessary to use an interpreter to interview the accused, victim or witnesses
the name and contact details of the interpreter used by the police should be contained in
the police report.

‘If the reporting officer is unable to ascertain the language and/or dialect required this
fact should be set out in the police report to allow the Procurator Fiscal and the police
to work together to ensure that a genuine assessment of the language needs of the
individual takes place prior to attendance at court.

56
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

Instruction of Interpreters for Criminal Court Assignments

In cases where an accused requires an interpreter and where he or she is kept in custody
pending appearance at court or liberated on undertaking the police should arrange for an
interpreter, skilled in the language and dialect required, to assist the accused at his or her
first court appearance.

The protocol which follows these guidelines sets out agreed arrangements between the
Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service, ACPOS and Scottish Court Service in
relation to the instruction of interpreters for criminal court assignments and should be
viewed as being part of these guidelines for that purpose’.

DEATH REPORTS AND ASSOCIATED CRIME REPORTS
Liaison with Next-of-Kin and Bereaved relatives

The Lord Advocate directs that in death reports and associated crime reports the
Procurator Fiscal should be advised of the involvement and identity of the Family Liaison
Officer where such an officer has been appointed by the police.

In deaths cases police officers should bear in mind that while communication with the
next of kin will be appropriate, the deceased may have an extended family or partner to
whom relevant information will also require to be communicated. The death report and
any associated crime report should clearly identify both the next-of-kin and any other
appropriate individuals to whom communications should be directed. This is to ensure
that the family of the deceased is advised of developments in the case. In such cases the
death report and associated crime report should also specify whether the next-of-kin or
any other individual identified as an appropriate point of contact requires interpreting or
translation services. Good practice will require appropriate liaison between Procurators
Fiscal and Senior Investigating Officers.

In cases where it appears that the deceased's family may have specific cultural or
religious needs the death report and associated criminal report should clearly specify both
their ethnic and religious background to ensure that liaison can take place in a manner
which is sensitive to their cultural and religious needs.

CROWN OFFICE
FEBRUARY 2002

' The protocol will come into force from 1 April 2002 and should be followed with regard
to cases calling for the first time in court thereafter.

57
INSTRUCTION OF INTERPRETERS FOR CRIMINAL COURT DIETS
PROTOCOL

This protocol sets out agreed arrangements between Crown Office, Scottish Court
Service and ACPO(S) for the instruction of interpreters for criminal court diets. It
is intended to cover the instruction of community, foreign and sign language
interpreters (and other interpreters required for those with sensory impairment).

It is the responsibility of the police to advise the Procurator Fiscal in the police report
whether the accused or any proposed prosecution witness requires the services of an
interpreter to give evidence in court. The reporting officer should specify the language
and dialect required in the police report and should also provide the name, designation
and qualifications of any interpreter used at the investigative stage so that the Procurator
Fiscal and the Scottish Court Service may ensure that, so far as possible, the same
interpreter is not used at any court diet.

It is the responsibility of the Procurator Fiscal to engage a suitably qualified and
experienced interpreter’, skilled in the language and dialect specified in the police report,
to assist prosecution witnesses in giving their evidence.

It is recognised that there is limited time available between arrest and the first appearance
of an accused person in custody.

In all cases therefore where accused persons are appearing for the first time from custody
the police will, so far as possible, arrange, on behalf of the Scottish Court Service, for a
suitably qualified and experienced interpreter to appear at court to assist the accused. The
interpreter engaged for court should not be the same interpreter who assisted the accused
during the investigation stage although it is recognised that it may not always be possible
to secure the services of a different interpreter who has appropriate qualifications and
experience given the limited time available. The fact that the police have engaged an
interpreter for the accused’s first appearance from custody should be set out in the police
report to the Procurator Fiscal. If difficulties arise in securing the services of an
interpreter the police should make early contact with the Procurator Fiscal. The fee of the

' So far as possible spoken language interpreters engaged should have the Diploma in
Public Service Interpreting (Scottish Legal Option) and recent experience of both
consecutive and simultaneous interpreting in the court context. It is recognised however
that there is a shortage of qualified and experienced interpreters in some languages and
that particular difficulties may arise in relation to first appearances from custody. On
occasion it is recognised that interpreters who do not have the preferred qualifications
and experience will require to be engaged. When this is necessary the interpreting
service involved should be asked to provide a written assessment setting out why the
interpreter is deemed to be suitable for the proposed work.

Sign language interpreters should be registered as qualified interpreters with the
Scottish Association of Sign Language Interpreters.

58

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

interpreter in such cases will be paid by Scottish Court Service and they will instruct the
interpreter for the accused for any continued diets in the case.

In respect of all other criminal court diets, both pre-trial and trial diets, it is the
responsibility of the Scottish Court Service to engage a suitably qualified and
experienced interpreter, skilled in the language and dialect required to assist the accused.
In respect of all other diets the Procurator Fiscal will advise the Sheriff Clerk (or in High
Court cases the Deputy Principal Clerk of Justiciary) in writing of the language needs of
the accused, namely the language and dialect as set out in the police report, at least 14
days prior to the scheduled diet.

It is recognised that the role of the interpreter in the criminal court is crucial. The
Procurator Fiscal, Scottish Court Service and the police will ensure, so far as possible,
that interpreters are engaged through recognised interpreting services and that interpreters
engaged have appropriate qualifications and experience.

CROWN OFFICE
FEBRUARY 2002

59
WITN10510102

WITN10510102

APPENDIX 4
PENNYCUICK V LEES

1992 SLT 763

An accused person was charged on summary complaint with making false statements and
representations to the effect that through incapacity he had not been working when in fact
he had been working, for the purpose of obtaining benefit, contrary to s. 55 of the Social
Security Act 1986.

In the course of the trial evidence was led of an interview conducted by 2 Department of
Social Security officers for the purpose of satisfying themselves that the accused, whom
they had been following and had seen working, was in receipt of sickness benefit and
whether he would be entitled to benefit for a particular week. The accused was not
cautioned but when asked, gave his name and address and signed a statement declaring
that he was employed for more than 24 hours per week and that he wished to withdraw

his claims for sickness benefit and income support.

Four months later the same officers interviewed the accused and told him that they were
investigating an overpayment of sickness benefit and income support. He was shown 4
claim forms and without being cautioned, admitted signing them. Thereafter the accused
was cautioned and asked to sign a declaration which inter alia acknowledged having been
cautioned. Objection was taken to the admissibility of the evidence of both interviews but

the sheriff repelled the objection.

The accused was convicted and appealed on the ground that the sheriff had wrongly

admitted the evidence of the interviews since the accused had not been cautioned.
Held by the Appeal Court; (1) that the question in all cases where inquiries were being

conducted into activities which might be criminal was whether in all the circumstances

there had been unfaimess to the accused in what took place; (2) that since the questions at

60
the first interview were designed merely to obtain information from the accused on
matters relevant to their inquiries at a stage when the officers were still unable to say
whether or not the accused had committed an offence, the line of questioning was fair and
proper and the evidence was admissible; (3) that since it could not be said that the
accused at the second interview did not appreciate what was going on and there was no
suggestion that any pressure, deception or other device was used to obtain the
admissions, the sheriff was entitled to hold that there was no unfairness and to admit the

evidence and appeal refused.
Observed by the Appeal Court; that there was no rule of law requiring that a suspect must

always be cautioned before any question could be put to him by the police or by anyone

else by whom the inquiries were being conducted.

61

WITN10510102
WITN10510102
