WITNO0050107
WITNO0050107

Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance

Mr James Arbuthnot MP Alan Bates
House of Commons
LONDON

SW1A OAA

13" July 2012 Email: alan.bates!”

Dear Mr Arbuthnot,

Thank you for the opportunity to discuss with you and 2ndSight a possible way forward in the
matter of Post Office Horizon errors and system faults.

Though my agreement was not sought at the end of the meeting, my understanding of the
way proposed was as follows:-

That an initial investigation would begin late August which would be carried out by 2ndSight
with a watching brief by the JFSA appointed expert forensic accountant. It was envisaged that
this would take an approximate 4-6 months but should evidence of faults with Horizon become
apparent along the way, then this investigation would be halted. The focus of the
investigation would then change and a mainstream international firm would be brought in to
undertake a complete systems review.

For the term of the initial investigation Post Office would pay for the JFSA expert forensic
accountant at an agreed cost of £5000, and that person would be allowed access to work
undertaken by, and with the cooperation of 2" Sight, in order to ensure the impartiality of the
results obtained. It is accepted that the expert forensic accountant appointed by JFSA would
be required to sign a confidentiality agreement. Although that agreement should still enable
the forensic appointee of JFSA to report on the progress and findings of the investigation in
sufficient detail as to offer reassurance that the investigation is being, or has been pursued
appropriately.

The initial investigation would be in two parts, the first being current errors, the second to
investigate the historic cases which have been raised by MP’s and a number of cases to be
recommended by JFSA.

Current Errors

There would be a Post Office supported undertaking by 2ndSight to obtain current errors
occurring in Horizon from serving subpostmasters, which 2ndSight would then investigate and
track through the various processes. In order to have errors brought to the attention of
2ndSight, Post Office, at the highest level, would state that all those who submitted items for
WITNO0050107
WITNO0050107

consideration could do so with impunity. Post Office would make all subpostmasters aware of
this through their Subspace magazine.

Though not specifically discussed at the meeting, presumably this immunity with the addition
of anonymity would be extended to all Post Office personnel involved with Horizon e.g. H.Q.,
Chesterfield and Crown Office personnel, etc.

Historic Cases

The selected historic cases would include interviews with those involved, not just the
subpostmaster and the paperwork they have, but also the paperwork belonging to Post Office,
the employees involved and examining what investigation Post Office made into that case and
what efforts they made to examine Horizon as a cause of the loss.

The scope of the initial investigation would include, but not be restricted to, the following
areas:-

1. Review of area manager complaints.

2. A description of the Horizon system operations, in theory, in practice including training
and level and access and authority.

3. Review of the second level queries of system problems especially those involving

Fujitsu.

Preparation of a forensic analysis of the system errors to be used in point 5.

Selection of a sample of cases together with the historic cases put forward by MPs.

Live data testing on system parameters.

Report on the “cradle to grave” of the transactions that are flagged up in the cases

reviewed.

8. Report on the integrity of the Post Office Horizon system.

Nous

If these details are correct, I would on behalf of the members of JFSA, be prepared to offer
our full support and cooperation with the investigation, as proposed. We would also hand over
considerable information which we believe would be of assistance in bringing a speedy
outcome to a matter that has been supressed for far too long.

Yours sincerely

Alan Bates
Chairman, Justice For Subpostmasters Alliance

jfsa.orquk 2
