WITN10250107
WITN10250107

Your Ref:

Brooks Newmark MP Our Ref:

House of Commons
LONDON
SW1A OAA

13 October 2009

Dear Mr Newmark

I have been asked to reply to you directly on the Parliamentary Question that you
raised as follows;

‘To ask the Minister of State, Department for Business, Innovation and Skills,
whether he has received reports of errors in the Post Office Horizon system
which have led to Postmasters or Postmistresses being falsely accused of fraud;
and if he will make a statement’.

The Horizon computerised accounting system operates in around 12,000 Post
Office® branches and processes up to 750 transactions a second at peak times.
The system and the processes around it offer a very high level of security and
resilience and are designed to ensure that should part of the system or
equipment fail that the integrity of the accounting records are maintained. The
system has proved to be very robust since its introduction some ten years ago.

The Horizon system was fully tested at the time of the nationwide
implementation and all new software releases are also subject to rigorous testing
prior to going live in order to assure the accuracy of the accounting processes.
Additionally, our ongoing monitoring and control processes ensure that any
performance issues in the ‘live’ operation are quickly identified and resolved at no
detriment to individual subpostmasters.

Over the years we have scrutinized many Horizon transaction records to establish
where a discrepancy in the branch accounting may have occurred. This takes
place prior to notifying subpostmasters that an error has been made at their
branch, and asking them to make good the loss, as per the terms and conditions
of the Subpostmaster contract for services. Any subpostmaster who is unhappy
to accept a loss has the opportunity to provide evidence to support why they
believe that they are not responsible for it. We do take the concerns of our
subpostmasters extremely seriously and we do thoroughly investigate matters
when they are raised with us but there has never been any evidence found that
shows that the Horizon system has caused accounting errors.

www.postoffice.co.uk

Post Office Ltd is registered in England and Wales, Registered No. 2154540, Registered Office 80-86 Old Street, London, EC1V 9NN.
Post Office and the Post Office togo are registered trade marks of Post Office Ltd.

WITN10250107
WITN10250107

Page 2 of 2

In the ten years since Post Office Limited started using Horizon the integrity of
the system has also been tested in both the criminal and civil courts and has not
been found to be wanting.

I am satisfied that there is no evidence to doubt the integrity of the Horizon
system and that it is robust and fit for purpose.

I hope this information is helpful to you.

=e vis sincerdv.. a
GRO

Alan Coae
Managing Director

