WITNO03430105
WITNO3430105

PRIVATE & STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM
TO: John Lloyd FROM: Neville Bain
Mike Kinski

Miles Templeman
Rosemary Thorne

DATE: 12 June 2000

SUBJECT: APPRAISAL, OBJECTIVES AND FEEDBACK

Further to my note with John’s appraisal and objectives for the year ahead, I
attach a copy of my own objectives for the year ended 31 March 2001.

Please let me know if you have any comments, especially if you feel that any
areas have been overlooked or under-emphasised.

Kind regards

(0606004 PRIVATE & STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
WITNO03430105
WITNO3430105

PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL

DR NEVILLE BAIN - CHAIRMAN, THE POST OFFICE
Key Objectives for the Year Ended 31 March 2001

1. Provide leadership to the Board, ensuring that Board agendas are
relevant, meetings are effective, decisions are appropriate and in
keeping with the agreed strategy (ongoing.) Key events to include a
special meeting on strategy, an effective Away day that adds value for
NEDs and management. Ensure an occasional forum of NEDs with the
Chief Executive and Chairman for informal discussions and to ensure
that top management development and succession planning is addressed.

2. Build effective relationships:

© externally - with key politicians, senior government officials, key
opinion formers, Country Board Chairmen, Trade Unions,
Sub-postmasters, and increasingly with key players in the City.

© internally - with key POEB members and also key managers below
this level, especially those managing the Business Units and Support
Service groups.

3. Provide input as part of The Post Office team to:

(a) _ continue to make improvements to the strategic planning process,
and to gain approval of Ministers and officials to the preferred
strategy of The Post Office. To ensure that adequate resources
are committed in support of this strategy.

(b) obtain the commercial freedom needed to run The Post Office as
a successful, commercial State owned distribution company.

4, Fully support the Chief Executive and his team in maintaining
the agreed values of the organisation.

5. Monitor progress of the business against the agreed milestones in the
strategic plan, and to ensure that results are in line with delivery of the
agreed budget and other agreed targets.

Ensure that the Board is presented with better, more concise information
on overall performance and the health of the business. The Balanced
Scorecard will be implemented by June 2000.

[NCBobject2001 PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL
97
WITNO03430105
WITNO3430105

PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL

Ensure further improvements in the management development and
succession planning process are made, with resultant high quality
discussion at the Board, and resulting in a greater state of readiness
across the senior management cadre.

Ensure that the top level risks are addressed, agreed and monitored by
the Board. This will include Health & Safety as a Special item, and the
distillation of the very top level risks from the Risk Evaluation exercise
conducted by the management.

6. Provide a sounding board for the Chief Executive to allow the free
flowing of ideas at an early, formative stage.

7. To remain in touch with key issues of the organisation and with the
senior people, through an agreed programme of senior interfaces.

8. To be utilised to speak on behalf of The Post Office either as part of
training courses, or on external platforms, recognising the growing
importance of this as The Post Office moves to Plc status.

9. The following areas are the big issues that need to be monitored, to
ensure a successful delivery of the objectives of The Post Office:

© Relations with the CWU and general IR scene to ensure successful
implementation of the Way Forward Agreement and P&E new
resourcing deal.

© Mails volume to exceed 3.4%, with mail productivity increase of
3.1%.

« Packages & Express must deliver to budget which implies success of
the contingency plans.

© Major IT projects need to deliver to the agreed milestones. Quarterly
reports will now be made to the Board.

¢ Envision needs to break even and a fallback plan is being worked up
by the Chief Executive.

© Readiness for the new competitive environment remains a key area
for the current year.

¢ Implement the JV with TPG and Singapore Post, being alert to
possible wider opportunities.

© General Parcel / German Parcel performance to be monitored
separately.

'NCBobjecr2001 PRIVATE & CONFIDENTIAL
98
