WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL DRAFT

OPptiON C - CONSIDERATIONS AROUND FUTURE USE OF ASPECTS OF THE ICL PATHWAY SOLUTION

1. Introduction

This note explores a number of possibilities for future use of aspects of the ICL Pathway solution in an Option C (Termination) environment.
For the purpose of this note, Option C is taken to mean the termination of all current contracts with ICL Pathway, and in particular the demise
of any requirement from BA for the Benefit Payment Service. However, given that POCL’s desire for automation still remains, it is likely to be
suggested that ICL Pathway could continue, under some revised contract, to provide front end automation for POCL.

2. Advantages of Re-Use

Although there may be a natural reaction against any further use of ICL Pathway or its solution, based on POCL’s experience of the ICL
Pathway’s track record, there are a number of potential justifications for examining re-use options:

¢ the likely lead-time and costs of any “new” procurement for front end automation - any new procurement is likely to take at least 2-3 years;
re-use of ICL Pathway may considerably reduce this delay.

* reduction in risk (“better the devil you know”; much of solution now present and becoming proven)

* gaining maximum leverage out of the considerable sums spent by POCL during the past three years in working with ICL Pathway and in
defining, assuring, testing the Horizon solution and planning its rollout.

* cost benefits through reduction of any termination charges with ICL Pathway and more attractive (“fire-sale”) pricing
3. Specific Issues
Before considering the options for re-use, it is worth exploring a number of specific issues:

e What are POCL’s business requirements? Have they changed to invalidate the Pathway solution?

ICL Pathway successfully bid and commenced development against an expression of POCL’s business requirements which was produced

some 4 years ago. With the removal of BPS and other changes to POCL’s business and processes (move towards Network Banking, desire
to re-engineering the end to end design, etc), we need to understand whether ICL Pathway’s solution is still valid (or rather, how much is

still valid).

Jf/Option C Considerations Page 1 of 7
WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL DRAFT

It is worth being aware that 9 other Post Offices world-wide are now using, or planning to use, a Riposte based solution (and that none of
these have a Benefits Payments Service type requirement). A number of these have profiles of business which reflect POCL’s new
direction, and have explicitly selected a Riposte based architecture to meet their needs - in particular a number who have high levels of on-
line processing have chosen the Riposte based architecture. [This increase in use of on-line by POCL may change the balance of frame relay
vs ISDN on commercial and performance terms, however this is does not fall outwith the ICL Pathway architecture].

© Solution vs Company

In considering any re-use, it is important to distinguish between ICL Pathway (the company) and the Horizon solution. Whatever our
experience and view of ICL Pathway as a supplier, the Horizon solution - taken to be mean the technical solution to be provided by ICL
Pathway - was evaluated by POCL prior to award of contract and was considered to be fit for POCL’s needs (and indeed to provide
advantages, in terms of resilience and availability, over other solutions).

In this “pro’s” and “con’s” in this document it is the solution, rather than the company, which is being considered; some points on ICL
Pathway as a supplier are made later in this document.

© Application vs Infrastructure

It is also important to distinguish between the business applications developed by ICL Pathway, and over which there may be some
concerns (eg EPOSS) and the underlying infrastructure, of which we have increasing confidence. The majority of problems (at least
visible to POCL) to date have been within the implementation of Pathway’s applications (where we believe they have taken an
inappropriate approach and not allowed an independent verification and validation) rather than in the infrastructure, where they have
taken a more traditional approach, have been more open, have involved various joint working teams, etc.

« Infrastructure

We should not underestimate the complexities of building a secure, self-managing, resilient, highly available infrastructure covering 20,000
offices and 40,000 counter terminals spread over the entire UK, which is capable of being operated by non-technical staff with “zero-
intervention” (backups etc) in the office. Although other service providers could undoubtedly build such an infrastructure given time, the
scale and nature of our operation would be alien to them much as it was with ICL Pathway, and the complexity likely to be initially

Jf/Option C Considerations Page 2 of 7
WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL DRAFT

underestimated. We should be sceptical of any suggestion that such an infrastructure could be build bought “off the shelf” or developed
without considerable time, cost and effort by a third party.

4. Non-technical considerations

There are, of course, a number of “non-technical” issues that are likely to influence any decision to make further use of ICL Pathway or its
solution.

These would include:

* are ICL Pathway “fatally wounded”?

© can ICL Pathway or POCL make the transition to a new form of relationship? Will the necessary changes (including of staff) be made?
* does POCL have sufficient faith in ICL Pathway to deliver?

* can suitable relationships be (re-)built between POCL and ICL Pathway to enable future working?

* can a service be negotiated with and delivered by ICL Pathway in parallel with the work on termination of the current ICL Pathway
contract?

No view is taken within this paper on these issues.

Jf/Option C Considerations Page 3 of 7
WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL DRAFT

5. Possible Levels of Re-Use

Outlined below are a number of levels at which we might consider “re-use” of the ICL Pathway solution.

Description Pro's Con's
Re-use of relevant parts of design ¢ Infrastructure design still valid - « New service provider may not wish to be
through some form of purchase of IPR Pathway have addressed and solved constrained by previous solution

many of the unique problems of
POCL (size, network etc) which any
other service provider would hit.

(ICL Pathway cease to have any major
role with POCL, and therefore do not
provide or operate service)

« Documentation of “design” in a state fit for
useful handover unlikely to be simple (may
need ongoing consultancy)

Purchase ICL Pathway technical ¢ Avoids having to design and build * May acquire kit too soon for use, becomes
infrastructure (including hardware, infrastructure from scratch obsolete

operating systems, etc), as is, for our ae . . . A

ee ‘ieee y' ) ° ¢ Opportunities for good pricing? ¢ Little value in large amount of un-installed

hardware; little installed so far in field.

Could include: * POCL take on “risk” of systems integration

« data centres (buildings? staff?)
( 8 ) © Much of infrastructure is outsourced - eg

* network (contracts?) data centres are rented locations, with

«support services operations outsourced to other ICL
VISIONS.
* surveys . «ops
, © POCL potentially take on variety of existing

subcontracts from Pathway.

Jf/Option C Considerations Page 4 of 7
Level Description
3 Contract to ICL Pathway for use of .
infrastructure on which POCL run
own applications (a form of “facilities
management” deal).

Service could include:
¢ hardware in offices and data centre
¢ provision of comms network

* provision of operating systems, .
middleware, security, systems
management, software
distribution, ....

* operation of data centres
¢ installation activities

© support activities (field support,
help desks etc).

POCL manage development of
applications - either in house or
through third party subcontractor
(maybe direct use of Escher for
counter?)

Pro’s

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL

Infrastructure believed sound and
“ready to roll”

Infrastructure largely independent of
application design; problems of
scale, geography etc likely to be hit
by any service provider; Pathway
believed to have solved these
problems

Pathway technical infrastructure
reflects that used in other countries.
PO (eg Riposte etc)

Infrastructure provides significant
functionality which we would have
to provide in any solution:

¢ data transport/comms
¢ security (incl crypto)

* system management

¢ support

Allows POCL to focus on the
business applications whilst service
provider provides the largely
business-independent infrastructure

WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

DRAFT

Con's
« Need to develop clear definition of

“infrastructure” and therefore of the service
provided.

« POCL take on some integration risks (eg
between application and infrastructure)

e Will other parties be able to develop
applications for this infrastructure without
considerable Pathway involvement?
(especially at startup).

* Need to obtain full and unfettered access to
design of infrastructure to be able to
discharge our expanded integration role

* POCL will need to be able to “manage” ICL
Pathway’s provision of infrastructure.

« Writing applications from scratch =>
rollout not possible until critical mass
available.

Jf/Option C Considerations

Page 5 of 7
Level Description
4 Contract to ICL Pathway for use of .
Infrastructure plus existing
applications (APS, EPOS, OBCS?).

POCL develop future applications as
in (3).

5 Contract to ICL Pathway for use of .

Infrastructure plus existing
applications (APS, EPOS, OBCS?) plus
for development of new applications in
some “partnership” manner.

[Would need revised relationship with
ICL Pathway where we have full
visibility and review of design, no
“hiding behind IPR’ etc]

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL,

Pro’s

Allows infrastructure and existing
applications to be rolled out,
replacing existing legacy automation

Early rollout of infrastructure de-
risks rollout and allows early
introduction of new functionality.

Pathway continue to take some
integration risk/ responsibility

Pathway have application
development capability.

WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

DRAFT
Con's

e Are these applications what we now want
(eg EPOSS).

© —EPOSS is not built on Escher’s strategic
EPOS product; Pathway already
considering re-write (EPOS2).

* Have to integrate new applications into
existing EPOSS solution.

« Need to gain assurance on current
applications (as we “take them over”) -
need visibility of design etc.

* Need to move to new mode of operation
with ICL Pathway for application
development - responsibilities on both ICL
and POCL.

Jf/Option C Considerations

Page 6 of 7
WITN05970146
WITNO05970146

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL DRAFT

5. Conclusion

These options are, of course, highly dependent on the right commercial and contractual arrangements being achieved between POCL and ICL
Pathway. If the correct agreements could be reached, then there may be some advantage in POCL making use of at least part of ICL
Pathway’s solution in their future plans - where ICL Pathway already developed a suitable solution and are in a position to deploy it ina
considerably shorter timescale than could be achieved with a new service provider.

The provision by ICL Pathway of a managed technical infrastructure (level 3), on which POCL could mount its applications, could be worthy
of further consideration, if a suitably beneficial commercial arrangement could be found. The purchase by POCL of elements of hardware - eg
PCs, servers, etc - is not considered to significant benefit for POCL and is not recommended.

In summary - some options around the infrastructure are potentially worth exploring in more detail, but dependent on:
* anadvantageous commercial agreement for POCL

* agreement of a suitable contractual arrangement with ICL Pathway

* a belief that we can work with ICL Pathway

Jf/Option C Considerations Page 7 of 7
