WITN10370161
WITN10370161

DRAFT LETTER TO JAMES ARBUTHNOT

James,

Thank you for your letter of 1 May about the Initial Complaint Review and Mediation
Scheme (the Scheme).

Interim Report

I have considered your suggestion with regard to the interim report. I am afraid that I
am still of the opinion that now is not the right time to circulate such a report.
Although Second Sight did intend to produce their report in March, they have not yet
been able to provide a full draft.; So far, they have only did produced an extract of
an early draft of the thematic report for the Working Group’s consideration, in early
April. That report was such an early draft that it
Group could sensibly was-netableto-consider.-it, aAs far as I am aware, [no further
progress has been made’ it is stilI not clear when a full and advanced draft of the
thematic report from Second Sight will be available.]

Case progress

More positively I am able to inform you that the first draft Second Sight case review
is due to be released to the relevant aScheme applicant on Monday (12 May). This
is a significant milestone in the progress of the Scheme.

Alan Bates Letter

I am aware that you have also received a copy of some correspondence between
Alan Bates and Jenny Willott MP. It is worth noting that the Working Group Chair
has felt that he should write to the Minister correcting some inaccuracies in Mr Bates’
letter. I felt though, that I ought to also make you aware of the keyseme-ofthe
issues I have with the letter and its accuracy which, it seems to me, may undermine
the proper operation of the Working Group (and, in turn, the Scheme itself).

1. Contrary to the Working Group’s Terms of Reference, Fthe content of the
letter discloses outside the Working Group information breacskesthe-which is
confidentiality to the members of the Working Group.

2. It contains several factual inaccuracies and paints a picture which is
inconsistent with the-both the current and historic position. For example Post
Office had produced 20 reports for the Working Group's consideration at the
date Mr Bates wrote, rather than none, as Mr Bates says in his letter. (Query
for POL: is the figure of 20 correct? The letter to Jenny Willott refers to

16 reports.]

WITN10370161
WITN10370161

3. The fact that \Vir BatesAlan has bypassed the structure of the Working Group
to raise concerns is parti ularly disappointing and contrary to the spirit teads.
of the Working

brought to Post Office’s attention through the Scheme, but like you, I am concerned
that the pace of delivery of the Second Sight reports means that the Scheme may
take longer than either you or I would wish. I am actively engaged in trying to
resolve this issue and would welcome the opportunity to update you in person on my
thinking.- [To that end, please do let me know if and when you are available to
meet. I would therefore be grateful if you would refrain from circulating our
correspondence at this point, as I feel we would be better able to decide how best to
take forward updating MPs after we have spoken.

PV
