Programme Review - Brainstorm on Suggestions

1. TIP

tchpoi

Get part or all of TIP
functionality from
Pathway & consider
outsourcing some or all
of TP BU

Group IS Strategy
Migration path
Legacy systems
Lose control of value

Releases scarce
IT/Project resource

Refocus on rest of
programme/year 2000

Reduces cost

chain

e Technically Pathway’s architecture wouldn't preclude - they are running a large
‘data warehouse’ for the BA side (MIS/FRMS etc), and are developing ‘data
mining’ functionality (CFM Dublin, Business Objects, Oracle etc).

e Obviously Pathway would need to grow current systems - processing/storage - but
this would be extension of current architecture rather than new architecture.

e Currently TIP (ignoring HAPS and now ADS) acts as the single interface for data
into POCL from Pathway => simple service boundary. Shifting TIP into Pathway
would increase number of Pathway-POCL links (for back-end systems);
presumably POCL will need access to data in TIP?

e POCL’s design for some new products (eg NS) involves data to clients flowing via
TIP (ie Counter-Pathway-TIP-Client), as against the AP model of direct Pathway-
Client. Shifting TIP into Pathway could reduce the chain (improve
performance/QoS etc) if the “value-added” component of TIP is needed in this
flow.

e Could avoid the need for bulk transfer of transaction level data from Pathway to
TIP (10Gb/night) but presumably still needs to be accessed by POCL?

e Where would RDP fit - would that be shifted to Pathway (could resolve some
problems between Pathway and RDP, TIP and RDP)?

e Procurement rules - proberty of adding TIP to Pathway’s scope without public
tender?

e Pathway’s record in delivery so far - would we want to increase reliance? What
effect would extending Pathway’s scope have on their ability to manage the
current core products (“eye off the ball”).

e What exactly do we want from TIP in the long run?

WITNO5970114
WITNO5970114
2. Decouple EPOS from Release 2

Uncouple EPOS from Is this technically Release 2 quicker to
Release 2 possible? market?
Assumes that AP is Girobank/Bill Payment
more advanced than clients ©
EPOS. BAO
Why
Either

e we don’t think Pathway can deliver contracted solution in the time - ie to de-risk
Release 2

or:

e we don’t want what we've contracted for => we are going to change our business
processes

Feasibility

e AP at the counter appears to be intergrated part of EPOSS - so using the EPOSS
facilities for reports/receipts/settlement/ref data etc - more integrated than BES,
for instance (historical reasons).

e But techncially possible to “do a BES” - make standalone AP, not dependent on
EPOSS (apart from the shell), produce AP specific reports etcto feed manual in-
office accounting (similar to APT). AP requirements should be easy to implement
on the Riposte platform - gives you all the tools.

e Introducing this now may be too late to give payback - depends on how sceptical
we are about EPOS - against latest plan would appear to be too late
(development finishes end of year, it’s now mid-Oct) but this could reduce risk

e Should this be followed as a parallel activity, as contingency against EPOS
problems - but again danger of taking Pathway’s eye off the ball (sub-contracted
to Escher).

e Could use HAPS-type reference data (has a logic, if Pathway seen as another
feed to HAPS alongside APT and AP/ECCO).

e Downstream issues - if you roll out non-EPOS version, how do you get EPOS on it
later (training, migration etc)?

Desirability

e Lack of EPOS would preclude rollout into ECCO offices => problems for rolllout of
BA functionality, “holes” in coverage

e Unclear whether EPOS is part of critical path - Pathway claim that the gating item
for Release 2 development is Oracle PAS/CMS functioniality, not at the counter
=> removing EPOS may not speed up R2.

WITNO5970114
WITNO5970114
Pathway replan (interim) currently showing all counter and central development to
be finished by end-97 (including AP and EPOS)

However, we (PDA and POCL) have had very little visibility of AP and EPOS
development

e joint working on AP in Autumn 96 with POCL, another demo of AP early
summer 97

e both products counter functionality shifted to Escher for ‘completion’
summer 97 (re-write?)

e Early drop of EPOS from Escher has been demo’d to PDA - but not AP yet

e Pathway claim central site (agent/oracle) functionality for AP and EPOS “on
the shelf’ ready

e Lack of available design documentation on AP and EPOS

e AP and EPOS dependent on POCL reference data - currently to be
sourced from RDP and “enriched”

=> Pathway not flagging AP/EPOS as risk or critical path however we have
little evidence to judge readiness

Even if Pathway believe EPOS is “fit for purpose”, is POCL going to agree - given
POCL's uncertainty over what it really wants?

AP mag/barcode should be much simpler than EPOS - so less risk of a mis-
match, less room for debate

=> although we don’t have evidence that AP is more advanced than EPOS,
gut feeling is that AP is far simpler and clear cut, EPOS is complex and
less well defined -> greater risk.

Question - what is POCL’s busness priority (ignoring ECCO constraint):
e Automation of transactions (eg AP, BES, NS, Giro...)
e Automation of accounting (eg EPOS and TIP)

What does it actually give you - ability to handle AP mag/barcode in the 200
offices, but could you roll-out => commercials, what's in it for Pathway, etc.
Rollout is dependent (currently) on acceptance, could we accept without such a
major element of the service?

Rollout may be de-risked - training for BES and APS far simpler than EPOS (may
help hit beat rate is training/support seen as critical path).

WITNO5970114
WITNO5970114
3. Redesign EPOS

Re-design EPOS to Dependent on technical I Can we get for “free”
better fit business architecture ADS, EFTPOS, EMU,
requirements Mails, MIS?

Do we actually know what we want - what are the business requirements? Failed
to specify over the past 3 years, how long would it take to specify now?

Do we actualy know what's going to be wrong with what we are getting (assuming
we get what we've contracted for)?

What is the inherent inflexibility (“the ECCO syndrome”) that we think is a
problem?

Do we know what we - as POCL - actually want from (say) EMU? Liable to be
rather more than what a till may want - eg are we to account for denominations,
ONCH, SADADS etc.

Escher have a Mails package already - it’s their core business - so should be not
be following the Post Office direction

Feasibility

Could start a redesign - do we put EPOS on hold until we do, what effect on the
rest of Horizon (esp rollout and acceptance) and on the commercials?

If we know what functionality we want, Pathway could deliver on the Riposte
platform - it provides the “toolkit”.

Riposte designed to be “fast time to market”, good separation between
infrastructure and applications - other PO’s (eg An Post) have achieved very fast
development times.

We need to move to generic products so that we can get maximum re-use (and
faster time to market)

What's not feasible

Cannot just pick up a retail EPOS package and “drop” into place - although
theoretically may be able to make fit technically, it would be a mismatch, high risk,
unsupported etc - very high risk

Retail EPOS packages suit retail - much of what we are trying to do isn’t retail

We'd loose much of what we gain through Riposte - high availability, high
resiliance, high security etc.

Procurement/proberty aspects

WITNO5970114
WITNO5970114
