WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

POCL Infrastructure/End-to-End Demo - Meeting Report
Supplier: Pathway/Escher Date: 11/12 December 1995

Location: Escher Group Ltd, Cambridge, MA USA

Attendees:
BA/POCL Supplier
Jeremy Folkes Mike Murphy (Escher)
Naresh Mohindra Drew Sutherland (Escher)
Liam Church (An Post)
Liam Foley (Pathway)
John Dicks (Pathway)
Purpose:

Visit to Escher as part of Demonstrator Reference Site visit programme.

Escher are the developers of Riposte, the package which in Pathway’s proposal
provides the middleware functionality for both the Office Platform and TMS layers of
the POCL Infrastructure and also provides a major component of the End-to-End
benefit payment system. Riposte was, at the time of the visit, the subject of the
severity A/5 risk PWY009, which was the most serious outstanding technical risk
against Pathway. This risk was downgraded to B1/5 in January 1996 and
subsequently to C/5 in February.

Caveat:

The meeting was over-shadowed by the issue of a Non-Disclosure Agreement which
Pathway/Escher wished the programme to sign. As a result, some time was lost during the
meeting for protracted telephone conversations with BA/POCL in London to try to resolve the
issue. By the end of the first day in Boston it became known that BA/POCL were unwilling to
sign the NDA as it stood, which caused the atmosphere in the meeting to be somewhat
strained. As a result, the meeting was fairly disjointed - as portrayed by these notes - although
a considerable amount of information was still gathered.

Items of Note:

1. Background on Escher
« Mike Murphy - previous experience:

« Background in Data Management facilities, wrote first system (sold to NCR)
when still at high school.
Anti-submarine warfare database
Rug servicing company (order scheduling, cleaning etc) - late 70s
Housing partnership database (matching properties to investors)
1-800 order direct database
Saddlebrook - company writing software for the Thrift Industry. MM was Vice
President for Technology. Brought database products “up to date”. Product
called DBX - an object store for very large databases, had “Strong
Versioning”, the ability to view the database at any point in time as
consistent.

e Drew Sutherland recruited to Saddlebrook in 1987.
« Saddlebrook bankrupt in 1989 (due to the crash in the US thrift industry).

e MM formed Escher Group from the high tech group at Saddlebrook (including Drew
Sutherland). Apparently Escher started on funding from Digital, via the An Post

Page 1 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

connection (An Post are traditionally a Digital shop) and Mike Murphy’s consultancy
role.

Took forward Saddlebrook’s DBX as a product called “Matisse”, now sold to various
French companies (nuclear, gas/chemical plus military for naval system), plus 40-50
major clients in US (including military), plus now Tokyo Gas.

Matisse now developed/marketed by French company Intellitic International;
specifically marketed in US by company called ODB. However Escher still collects
royalties on all sales.

Matisse and Riposte “both come from the same intellectual exercise” but are
independent products. Riposte is built on the experience from Matisse.

Matisse was a kernel rather than an end product, designed to be used as the core of
systems. Aimed for use in a specialised, controlled environment using skilled
developers. With Riposte the aim is that a standard VB programmer (“a COBOL
programmer of the 90s") should be able to write applications.

. Riposte Philosophy and Background

Mike Murphy involved in evaluation of proposals for An Post system (as “chief
technical consultant” to An Post, a role he apparently still holds). Found none were
suitable/affordable, so Escher developed Riposte in very short timescale to fill this
need.

Riposte was designed to “never deny a payment’ - had to give a very low probability
of failure and a high probability of recovery.

Escher have a close relationship with Microsoft and Bill Gates; positioning Riposte
to add value to the Microsoft product line. However, Mike Murphy also stated that
architecturally they are not forced to Microsoft - the link is commercial.

Riposte:

interfaces at a high level (applications can write to it)

truly peer to peer distributed messaging architecture

robust, assumes little about the environment and a low skill level
secure in a vulnerable environment

cheap support costs (very little support needed)

Riposte 32:
e improved communications/resilience
¢ improved datastore at Correspondence Server; data management facilities
“Industrial Strength”
e using Microsoft NT certified access control (with Windows 95 would have to
“do it yourself’).

Riposte 2 and Riposte 32 are designed to interwork (as will indeed happen in An
Post during cutover)

In later meeting Mike Murphy introduced the concept of two release of Riposte 32:
e Riposte 32 Rel 1 - Jan96 - the version described here
« Riposte 32 Rel 2 - Jan97 - NT/CAIRO integration, better backend facilities
(distributed security and transaction processing, extending further into the
central systems)
Policy is not to use third party products - only to use using NT facilities - to avoid
additional licence fees and additional dependencies. Aiming to lever best value out
of NT and to “converge” with NT; (eg with NT 3.51 Microsoft have added

Page 2 of 9
RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL

PWY/JFO/006

underlying facilities, designed for use by SQL 6, which are of use for any database
developer). [But they do use PKWARE compression/CRC libraries, as POCL do in AP]

¢ Escher do not use “unpublished interfaces” with NT

3. Differences between Riposte 2 and Riposte 32

Peer to Peer LAN

controls for Visual
Basic, calls DLLs)

NetDDE UDP/IP Performance; IP-
Multicast support;
Standard TCP/IP
Application Interface I DDE RPC/OCX Performance (especially
(OCX custom at Correspondence

Server)

Event Logging

JOURNAL.LOG file

Integrated with NT
event management

Efficiency; integrated
audit log

(may also feed up events
through Riposte if
available)

Execution
Environment

Windows
application/task (icon
on screen etc)

NT Service (started
by NT)

Security

Performance Custom VB Utilities NT Performance Integration; scales to
Monitoring Monitor (hooks in large network
Riposte)
Configuration CONFIG.TXT file NT Registry Standard/tools and
security
Security Limited access NT features, digital Security
controls (digital signatures, FF.
signatures, IFF, DES) Only Riposte can get
at the files.
Time Partial Full (using NT Note: Riposte itself is not
Synchronisation facilities) based on times, as it

uses message sequence.
NT has local election of a
“time authority” is office
off line. Clock changes
probably handled via
GPS clock on one of the
CSs

CHANGES TO HERE HAD

BEEN COMPLETED ALREADY; FOLLOWING ONES HAD

YET TOBE COMPLETED.

Call Management

Connectionless
Message Passing
paradigm.

Connection
Management (UDP
over PPP)

ISDN-B for BA/POCL.
Note: still needed, but
thinking slightly changed
as Pathway moved to

standard IP/Routers

Page 3 of 9

WITNO5970142
WITN05970142
RESTRICTED -

COMMERCIAL

WITNO5970142

WITNO5970142

PWY/JFO/006

Message Store

Text based.

External indices

Binary, Random
Access (region of
disk, bucket of
storage, possibly
across multiple
disks). Parallel
access.

Internal indices.

Ability to selectively
compress or encrypt

Performance/Scalability.

Facilities enabled by NT
and the NT File Store
NTFS.

Concept of never
overwriting still
maintained even in new
file store.

in file store.
Synchronisation Single level marker High level marker Tuning/Scalability
Protocol exchange messages
Allows sync between
(Escher were overlapping groups
unwilling to talk more
in detail without NDA)
Archiving Off-line, overnight - Background task Possible due to the

need to take down
and restart

parallel access to the
new message store

Persistent Journal
Objects

Limited. Tended to
use .INI files for
application config
Had to reboot to load.

PJOs in the Riposte
journal. No need to
reboot. Application
can ask for
notification of
updates

More efficient,
Ability to use “on the fly"

4. Structure of Riposte

APPLICATION (including Riposte Desktop)

Application Interface

Peer Networking

Message

Processor

Re-sync

Message Store

Communications

Operating System (Windows NT)

Page 4 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

5. Relationship Issues - Escher/Pathway

Second day started with a debate between John Dicks and Mike Murphy regarding the
programme risks - Mike Murphy: “are we aware of these?”. Mike felt that Pathway
had failed to “sell” the advantages and strengths of Riposte and Escher to BA/POCL,
asking “Who is remiss at getting the message across?”.

Mike outlined the strengths of Riposte:

« he views Riposte as reducing risk - use of NT, IP messaging, convergence with
Microsoft plans for Cairo and Talon.

« close links with Microsoft, moving towards Message Orientated Middleware, Bill
Gates aware and supportive

« considers Riposte to reduce dependency on other products, messaging
architectures will become a “commodity item”.

Mike Murphy to John Dicks: “Why did you leave it so late in the game before bringing
us in?”

e re manageability risk, Mike Murphy’s view is that using Riposte ‘its replacing 20,000
servers with 16 servers and so much easier to manage”. They had considered NT
Server in each office, but how do you manage 20,000?

e Pathway had apparently originally considered a centralised system as less risk for
the bid

6. Relationship with An Post
« Escher said they were “avoiding” transfer of the Riposte IPR to Pathway

e An Post is considered a “marketing partner”

e Apparently Escher, An Post and POCL are working together on Hungarian bid
(appears some work by Systems Consultancy in support?)

« Escher had worked with both IBM and with Anderson Consulting as well as Pathway
- and say they chose Pathway. Regret the amount of documentation they gave IBM.

e Re NT - Commented on experience of Nat West as an early adopter of NT Server -
long painful process, due to lack of support tools etc. Now running well after
significant Microsoft involvement/money.

* Conversation with Liam Church on the plane back: Riposte is apparently jointly and
severally owned by Escher and An Post - with An Post funding the development up
to June/July 1995. Pathway are now part funding the development.

7. Synchronisation/Replication

Escher gave a primer of Sync/Resync but based on the technology of Riposte 1. This
is said to be much optimised for Riposte 2 and Riposte 32 but lack of NDA etc made
them unchain to go into too much detail on 32.

e messages - written to local store, broadcast to neighbours

« when message processor receives a message, it checks last message number from
that node (which may have been forwarded via a third party - irrelevant). If not
ready (ie hasn't got all preceding messages) sends a request back to the forwarding
node. If no response it takes no action. But the original (potentially out of
sequence) message is still forwarded, even if this node is sick (including via ISDN in
BA/POCL).

Page 5 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

Riposte maintains two counters - the last message stored (ie last in true sequence),
plus a high-water mark. Apart from these markers, Riposte is stateless.

Every node broadcasts the state of all the nodes (latest in store plus high water
mark). Markers are send on a time interval plus whenever a machine re-establishes
a network connection.

Messages are protected by a CRC (implemented using the standard PKWARE
algorithm). All CRCs are checked on receipt and retrieval from the message store.
If one is discovered bad on retrieval, assumes the entire store to be corrupt and
marks it as such, recovering from elsewhere.

Marker messages - Down to how quickly you want to detect a missing message,
based on how often a message will go missing (latency). Worst case shown as:

Assume 40,000 terminals * 32 bit message sequence number = 160kB
Assume 60 second exchange interval
=> 24kbit/second (<<8Mbit/second)

As must journals will not have changed, can send only the changed data
=> 6kbit/second which is <1% of the network capacity.

Once a missing message is found, it will generate traffic to request the missing data.

. Mortality

mortality is either based on an explicit mortality date, on a default expiry, or based
on PJO being superseded (later version of the same message)

to maintain sequencing, a message which is behind one to be killed is re-written (re-
incarnated) with a new number and a pointer back to the old one, so that there is
always a dense set of messages in the store. This is only done for “own messages”.
[Appears that there is also a low water mark concept].

When rebuilding from another node (eg a CS) Riposte checks the mortality rules
before writing.... this would appear to force all (including those ready to be killed)
messages to be transferred over the network. Apparently this is one of the
“optimisations” covered by NDA.

. Recovering Own Node Messages (different)

looks for markers, to get own high water mark, then goes into recovery mode
(cannot store transactions at this point)

how does it decide when fully recovered (the risk that there could be transactions
hidden on a disconnected terminal, for instance)? Number of options are possible:
e warn if not all terminals have been seen (manually check physical receipts)
¢ refuse transactions until all machines back
« use a dongle to record the high water mark and id of the terminal.
The dongle was Drew Sutherland's preferred option, and anyway they may want a
dongle for security. Mike Murphy: “There are numerous other reasons why you

want a dongle”. John Dicks retorted that there are other ways, must remember cost
etc.

Escher seemed to fully understand the scenario we were proposing, unlike Pathway in the
UK who were keener to rubbish the idea. It seems that the terminal will always know which
terminals it hasnt spoken to, so it would be possible to detect the danger cases, but will this
be strong enough?

Page 6 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

e Liam Church commented that this scenario had happened twice in 2 years in An
Post. They now have a procedure in place (since last Easter) to force all terminals
to be “seen” before a replacement can serve.

10. Security

e Escher have access to MIT, and to Rivest of RSA fame (had worked with Drew
Sutherland). Comments made that academics are interested in Escher as means of
establishing credibility in commercial world.

e Riposte does not support Clipper; does support Kerberos (will be in NT 4.0) [ICL
need to get Kerberos project for Sesame EU work?] and are planning to use
Kerberos for BA/POCL (or ICL will propose an alternative?)

e An Post are using 1000 bit RSA keys for digital signatures, with no encryption. For
UK, Pathway are proposing 64 bit DES key.

e An Post do not use MAC-ing from office to CS - seen as an overhead.

e Escher preference for cryptography is to supply source to client for them to compile,
to avoid trap doors.

e Escher mentioned they have cryptographically strong random number generator
available if strong cryptography required.

¢ Digital Signature planned for Benefit Payments; keen to use secure sequencing
(again pushing for dongles) but Pathway negative to the idea.

11. Indexing

e can either commit indexing at the time, or can blast data in and build the indices
later.

¢ hierarchical CRCs for indexes
* partitioning of indices in Rip32 - so can do parallel updates using RAID etc.
« change to caching algorithm and how the indices are stored

e background threads in Rip32 to maintain indices. Indices are never force committed
at CS level. Application can force; in offices transactions are committed in an
atomic fashion.

two types of index - attribute index (permanent), retrieval index (temporary, read
only, never updated, equivalent to an SQL query/view.

« same software but different code paths between CS and office - no compile time
switches (and some code never executed, eg office doesn’t expect data from
another office)

« if need compression, would use PKWARE libraries... achieve >8:1 on attribute
grammar.

12. Agents

e Agent uses the Riposte 32 API to communicate with data store via the Topology
Manager/Supervisor. The agent is the means by which external systems (including
PMS/CMS, TIP) are linked into Riposte.

Page 7 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

* Topology Supervisor knows which CSs are able to respond to a call (could be a
number). Allows dynamic load balancing. The TS is strictly a dynamic entity, no
storage of its own.

« Three types of agent:

« On-line - listens to messages and acts. Specifies the type of messages it
want to be notified of. Aims to be a simple state machine, does not need to
keep records of outstanding messages.

Concept of “tokens” to handle contention and locking - bronze for R/O, silver
for possibly unable to write, gold for exclusive.

Topology Supervisor will map across the CSs to get a full view of messages.
May end up getting multiple copies of message, but this is ok.

¢ Harvester. Concept of office sending an “end of day” to show cut-off, to
define reversal constraints etc. Harvester does not release a batch of
transactions until it gets end of day, using “markers” in the CS store,
replicated back to the office.

This would mean although a batch of transactions had been trickled to the
CS, you would still be dependent on an end of day “poll”. Purely done to
police reversal policy? Apparently could do either (harvester code change).

e System Management - to look at state of individual CS etc.

13. Miscellaneous

e Topology Supervisor - one per cluster, probably a separate machine . Handles
requests from agents to appropriate CS via RPCs, to avoid external agents from
having to know the topology. [300 msgs/sec experienced on “old” technology].

¢ Actuarial Broker. Interesting concept, of assigning value to a message or
transaction computing value vs cost for where to authorise etc. John Dicks not keen
to discuss, cut debate short!

« Wholesale Broker. Takes transactions in bulk, managing the initial disbursement of
transactions over the network (+ other info and emergency payments etc).
[Pathway think 900tps is the maximum push and pull load].

« Single Position Offices. Mike Murphy still proposing PCMCIA disk; John Dicks
suggestion dongle (to hold recent txns) or flash memory. Would need a special
driver for message store to truncate to last (n-k) messages.

14. Call Management _(Mark Jarosh, Pathway)

e Pathway now looking at using IP Routers with implicit connection to PPP router -
passing of a IP frame causes the call to be made.

e Considered that using NT Server for comms would be high risk - now prefer Cisco
IP routers say 3 PRIs.

15. Escher

e ~14 staff working at Escher offices Cambridge, including 2-3 imported from Pathway
for BA/POCL.

Page 8 of 9
WITNO5970142
WITN05970142

RESTRICTED - COMMERCIAL
PWY/JFO/006

e Escher have several different rooms located in communal office building - Suite
2200 One Kendal Square. The building is used by large number of hi-tech
companies formed out of MIT/Harvard.

« Mike Murphy tends to work from home or globetrots (did not seem familiar with the
latest offices layout)

« Drew Sutherland splits time between home and Cambridge office

16. Demonstrations Given
« Demo of Message Spy/Object Browser tools.

e Saw ISDN (PRI and BRI) line simulators etc. Test lab is set up consisting of a
number of Compaq servers, LAN etc.

« Demo of Riposte Cashier - screen based transaction definition tool, allows simple
transactions to be added, including effect on ledgers, ensuring session ends
balanced, etc.

Papers Received:

¢ Matisse brochures
« “Distributed Algorithms” by Nancy Lynch (Draft of Ch1-4 and Ch5-6)

¢ “Small-Depth Counting Networks and Related Topics” by Michael R Klugerman (MIT
Research Paper)

Jeremy Folkes, 29 Jan 1996

Page 9 of 9
