WITN09020106
WITN09020106

Page 8 The Gazette Wednesday, December 27, 2000
Sub-post office partners claim refusal to use ‘faulty’ new equipment led to their suspension

Computer
blamed in

closed PO
wrangle

A CLEVELEYS sub- 10 months ago when new
Tee vanes claime DYNICTORIAROUSE =— computer equipment was
poses! Clann: i la installed to streamline
she has been sus- after ae i 5 ene business.
pended from her job Was i Preach of her They claimed that the
for refusing to use Thea paid abiieea epuioent was incatahie
computer equipment ofb-oie carrying out the job
erikt chic believes major disruption for cus. and they had decided to STILL SHUT: Disruption as Cleveleys Post Office remains closed
revert to doing the worl :
was faulty. residents facing lengthy by hand, staff were left without a the system installed 10 “I think they havemade A spokesman for the
ii walks to collect their pen- i, b and Post Offices boss- months ago and we have an irrational decision in Post ice said they were
willie Wolstenholme, Sons from alternative Inconvenience ay thebusinesswillre- had nothing but trouble closing us down hoping to install tempo
vho runs the sub-post post offices. But when they in- since. “If we were given it in ary staff as soon’as pos.
Gwenue with hey busi, ,,Ms Wolstenholme and formed the Post Office “It has put us back- writing that the computer sible.
venue with her busi-  yr-Harrison, who have about their decision, Ms wards financially and we system was 100 per cent
ness partner Roger porated the busy sub. Harrison was immediate: for the inconvenience that _ have had no help from the fully, operational we He said: “‘The suspen.
Harrison, wasforced to post office for just over aly suspended without pay had been caused to cus- Post Office so we revert would use it. Until that si s due to an alleged
shut up shop at the be- year, told The Gazette that _ until further notic tomers. back to the manual - day we willcontinue todo breach of contract pend-
ginning of December _ problems first came about Nine members of her He claime ‘We had tem. it by hand.” ing further enquiries.

2s

Iw «<r ’

