WITN03880102
WITN03880102

FUJITSU

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

FUJITSU ICL Computers Ltd. Set Up as a Leading PC Company In Europe

- New PC company joins Fujitsu's worldwide personal systems group -

Tokyo, Japan- July 1, 1996-- Fujitsu Ltd. today established a new personal computer company in Europe
called Fujitsu ICL Computers Limited. The new company, formed from ICL's existing Volume Products
Division, will further promote the globalization of Fujitsu's personal computer business and strengthen the
company's presence in the European computer market. As of July Ist 1996, FUJITSU ICL Computers
Limited begins trading under its new company name.

The new company is responsible for the development, manufacture and sales of a wide range of Personal
Computers and server systems for the Professional, Business and Home markets. Sales of its products in
calendar year 1995 when part of ICL PLC were over $1 billion. Included in the new company are factories in
Finland and Germany and development facilities in the UK, Sweden, Finland and Germany.

Fujitsu Limited now owns an 80.1% share of the new company and ICL PLC owns 19.9%. The registered
offices of FUJITSU ICL Computers Ltd is in Bracknell in the UK and it is led by the same management team
formally responsible for the business when it was part of ICL. Approximately 2000 employees have also
transferred from ICL to FUJITSU ICL Computers Ltd.

Commenting on the announcement, Mr Tadayasu Sugita Group President of Fujitsu's Personal Systems
Business said, "FUJITSU ICL Computers Ltd. will operate as an integral part of Fujitsu's Personal Systems
Business Group, it is important to our global strategy to have a strong presence in Europe and we are proud
to welcome this new member of our family".

Mr David Mills, Chief Executive and a member of the board of the new company said "The creation of
FUJITSU ICL Computers as a member of the Fujitsu family of companies enables us to forge much closer
and better links, it will deliver real benefits to our customers through increased economies of scale and
improved access to advanced Fujitsu technology. We are already planning a whole series of new products
and announcements which will impact the market later this year".

A number of new FUJITSU ICL Computers subsidiary companies have also been created in Europe to
provide direct support to local third party resellers, dealers and distributors.

Welcoming the announcement Mr Frode Berg Vice President European Sales said "Many of our sales
partners have been waiting for this move they see this as yet more solid evidence that Fujitsu is deadly
serious about becoming a leading player in the European computer market".

Notes to editors:

FUJITSU ICL Computers Ltd is an independent company based in Europe with Fujitsu Ltd of Japan as its
majority shareholder. It will operate as part of Fujitsu's Personal Systems Business Group.

In 1995 when part of ICL the organisation sold approximately 500,000 personal computers and 12,000
servers. The global sales of the Fujitsu group are likely to exceed 2.5 million units in 1996, putting it well on
track to achieving its ambition of becoming one of the world's top five PC vendors.

ASI Computer GmbH which was acquired by ICL Volume Products in June 1995 will play a significant role
in the new Fujitsu ICL PC company. Its German manufacturing facility is used to produce Consumer PCs
and Servers for the European market. It also has responsibility for the ongoing development of sales and.
support channels for the complete range of Fujitsu ICL branded products in Germany.
WITN03880102
WITN03880102

ICL PLC, or International Computers Limited, is an autonomous European information technology company.
Part of the Fujitsu Group of technology companies, ICL is an IT systems and services company which
operates in over 80 countries worldwide and which generated revenues of 3.1 billion pounds (UK) in 1995.
Fujitsu is ICL's majority shareholder, currently holding 84.4%. ICL's European management team is led by
Keith Todd, CEO.

More information on Fujitsu ICL Computers may be found on:
http://www. fujitsu-icl.com/(Fujitsu ICL Computers Ltd. Home Page)
http://www. fujitsu.com/(Fujitsu Ltd, Home Page in English)

