WITNO0050104
WITNO0050104

Mr Martin O’Neill MP Alan Bates
Chairman

Trade and Industry Select Committee
7 Millbank

LONDON

SWIP 3JA

Dear Mr O'Neill

Until November 2003 I was the subpostmaster of Craig-y-don Post Office and I am writing to
you to bring to your attention a case where Post Office Limited failed in their attempt to
illegally alter the terms of my contract.. Subsequently this resulted in them terminating their
contract with me ‘without giving a reason’ and they then walked off with the whole of our life
savings and future livelihood.

The file enclosed gives documentary evidence to support this claim, though it is littered with
numerous ‘red herrings’ by them to try and spin away from the core issue. They have
repeatedly refused, over a number of years, to address a very simple issue at the centre of
this matter. The letter written to my MP Mrs Betty Williams dated 15 December 2003
clearly identifies the problem.

The issue of liability this raises not only affected me, if affects every Subpostmaster in the
country and Post Office Limited have taken the decision to deny any rights to Subpostmaster
on this matter.

I am hoping, in providing this file to your committee, that you will be able to obtain answers
to the questions Post Office Limited have spent so much time ignoring, they do need asking
and they certainly need answering. They refused to answer them to my MP, they refused to
answer them to the Minister, but at the end of the day Post Office Limited operates with
Government approval, and that includes approval of the way they operate and run the
business. I really cannot believe that elected officials would knowingly approve of their
action of condemning every subpostmaster in the country to unlimited liabilities.

On the 26" June 2004 we placed our business property and home up for sale. We really did
not want to, but it is the only way we can see of raising the money to fund a court case
against Post Office Limited. We have been told that it may take between 18 — 24 months to

sell, but in the meantime we would very much appreciate anything your committee can do.

I will of course provide any further details you require and will attend any meetings if
necessary.

Your sincerely

Alan Bates
