WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

Bringing Technology to Post Offices and Benefit Payments

ESCHER DEPENDENCY - AN ANALYSIS

Author: Jeremy Folkes Version: Issue 1.0
Authority: John Meagher 7th April 1998
Reference: _ jf/23escdep.doc

Contents Page

. PURPOSE...

N

. BACKGROUND.......

we

ESCHER APPLICATION SOFTWARE..

4, ACCESS TO ESCHER DESIGN DOCUMENTATION...

wn

. PATHWAY’S KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE.

6. FUTURE RELEASES OF CORE RIPOSTE.....

~™

PATHWAY’S ARRANGEMENTS WITH ESCHER...

Ea

- CONCLUSION

1. PURPOSE

1.1. This paper seeks to provide an analysis of the Escher Dependency risk in the
light of ICL Pathway’s recent responses on the “Strategic Risk - Escher
Dependency”. It is based on the original risk documentation from the
evaluation phase but draws heavily upon Product Assurance Group’s
knowledge and experience of the subsequent ICL Pathway development
activity; it should therefore should considered as our view on the risk rather
than being definitive.

1.2. The report is structured around five key areas where ICL Pathway’s response
appears to fall short of providing an adequate mitigation of the overall
Escher risk.

1.3. Nothing contained within this document shall be deemed or construed as
affecting existing contractual obligations between ICL Pathway, the DSS
and/or POCL.

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ I of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

21.

2.2.

2.3.

2.4.

BACKGROUND

One of ICL Pathway’s key subcontractors is Escher Group Ltd, a small
software house based in Cambridge, Mass., USA. Escher’s products form the
basis of the ICL Pathway office and TMS solution, providing both underlying
Riposte middleware and various software applications for use in the office
(including the office Desktop and the Benefit Encashment Service
applications).

During the evaluation stage prior to award of contract, a number of Risks
were raised regarding Pathway’s dependency on Escher, the relationship
between the two companies and the Riposte product itself; as part of the risk
process, Pathway responded to these risks and their responses were taking
into account in the evaluation.

The risks raised were as follows:

(a) _ size of Escher - that Pathway were totally dependent on a very small US
based company, and that only a very small number of people had in
depth knowledge of Riposte (Risk PWY002).

(b) contractual relationships - that the contractual relationship between
Pathway and Escher was unclear, that Pathway had little direct
influence over the development of Escher products, and that
communication between Escher and Pathway appeared poor (Risk
PWY057).

(c) Riposte is unproven - that its reliability and scaleability to support the
POCL network in unproven (Risk PWY009).

(d) future development path for Riposte - that Pathway might not be able to
maintain a development path for Riposte in line with POCL’s needs
(Risk PWY059).

As a result of the Strategic Review of the programme led by PA Consulting,
further correspondence on the “Escher Dependency” risk has been taken
forward in correspondence between PDA (Peter Crahan) and ICL Pathway
(John Bennett). It is as a result of this correspondence that this paper has
been produced to re-examine the dependency on Escher in the light of the
recent Pathway responses.

WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ 2 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

3.1,

3.2.

3.3.

3.4.

Al.

ESCHER APPLICATION SOFTWARE

ICL Pathway’s response concentrates purely on “core Riposte” (which I take
to mean the Messaging Middleware and the Desktop/GUI), and fails to take
account of Escher’s involvement in other aspects of the system.

In particular, in John Bennett’s letter to PA Consulting dated 5th December,
he states that “The development of RIPOSTE based applications is entirely the
responsibility of ICL Pathway, including maintenance and support”. This
statement is at odds with the contract, where in POCL Agreement, Schedule
B1 the status of BES Counter Application and OBCS Counter Application are
clearly stated as “Third party (An Post/Escher)” rather than “CONTRACTOR”.
Note this is the same status as afforded to “Riposte” in the very same
schedule.

Perhaps more pertinently, whatever the exact interpretation of
“responsibility”, \CL Pathway’s assertion does not fit with our experience to
date on a number of counts, for instance:

* we know that the BES application has been developed by Escher, in
Boston, based originally on the An Post benefits payments
application; experience to date has shown that changes to BES
appear to need Escher involvement, suggesting that it is still
managed by Escher.

e the access control functionality in EPOSS has been developed by
Escher; you will recollect the problems that existed in Release 1c
with non-compliance with requirements in this area (leading to the
infamous 19 issues), where it became apparent that the necessary
modifications were to Escher code.

Recommendation: We should request that ICL Pathway clarify the ownership and
support arrangements for each of these applications, including stating which
organisation is deemed to hold the “master” version.

ACCESS TO ESCHER DESIGN DOCUMENTATION

ICL Pathway’s response majors on “access to source code” as the fallback
arrangement in case of loss of support from Escher; although in a worst case
scenario access to ‘C’ source may be better than nothing as a means of
effecting simple bug fixes etc, it is no replacement for a proper set of design
documentation for the products - both core Riposte and any Escher written
applications. I note that ICL Pathway have made no comment regarding
possession of or access to such documentation for the Escher products.

WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ 3 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

4.2. Based on experience, I would suggest that our greatest exposure relates to
the Escher-written applications rather than to core Riposte!. We have found
it very difficult to get any design documentation from ICL Pathway relating
to the BES application, primarily we believe as little has been provided to
ICL Pathway by Escher; it would appear that ICL Pathway have had to
resort “reverse engineering” in an attempt retrofit design documentation (eg
message specifications) to the delivered product. One can only surmise that
ICL Pathway’s contract with Escher does not support the provision of full
design documentation.

4.3. Although ICL Pathway may by now have gained an adequate understanding
of the Escher applications to perform development activities, and this may be
documented internally, it may be no substitute for the “real thing” when
major problems arise.

44, Recommendation: We should request that ICL Pathway describe what level of
Escher documentation, other that source code, they possess on the Escher-written
products, and ask them to demonstrate that this is sufficient to enable them to
support the product if required.

45. Although ICL Pathway may take the line that this is “confidential between ICL
Pathway and Escher’ or that this cannot be revealed for IPR reasonsld
recommend that we seek visibility of such documentation to confirm its
suitability. We would expect ICL Pathway to demand that this be performed
under NDA and probably would not want to involve individuals from
outwith the sponsor organisations, but we would not see this as a problem2.

5. PATHWAY’S KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE

5.1. Although ICL Pathway claim to be responsible for the development of
applications, it is still clear that they are heavily dependent on Escher for
support and advice, and that at times they require significant Escher
involvement to assist with the development of applications.

5.2. For example, we know that the original EPOSS application was shipped out
to Boston last year following the emergence of fundamental problems with
the product as developed in Feltham, and that a significant amount of work
was performed by Escher on that application before it was returned to the

! Note that applications are far generally more susceptible to ongoing change (due to evolution of
business rules, experience from live running, etc) than the core product which is largely application
independent and would not expect to subject to the same instability over time.

2 Suggest this be performed by someone internal to the programme and known to both Pathway and
Escher.

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ 4 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

5.4,

6.1.

6.2.

6.3.

6.4,

UK. This suggests that ICL Pathway were not in a position to manage
without Escher support, and recent indications are that ICL Pathway are still
in learning mode regarding the underlying functionality of EPOSS,
suggesting that they are still not in a position to fully support the application
in-house.

From our limited visibility, it appears that ICL Pathway still do not have the
necessary skills or experience in sufficient quantities to be able to fully “go it
alone” with the development of application software, despite their stated
intention when the risk was first raised to set up a “European Support and
Development Centre”. Although their ability will grow over time, it would
appear they still have some way to go, and we should note that ICL Pathway
is also heavily dependent on contract staff who may suffer a high rate of
churn.

This situation is probably inevitable given the nature of the ICL Pathway
solution. We would have more confidence, however, if there was an
admission of their dependency on Escher and better visibility of the
mitigations.

FUTURE RELEASES OF CORE RIPOSTE

Although we would not argue with the position taken by ICL Pathway in
their letter regarding core Riposte, we should be aware that the current
version of Riposte (5.3) does not provide the solution required for full rollout
of the contracted Pathway service nationwide.

To provide the solution originally proposed, Pathway are still dependent on
Escher to provide version 6 of Riposte (also sometimes known as Riposte 5.4)
which introduces the “Wholesale Broker” and adds full scalability? through a
level of indirection above the correspondence server level.

Although Pathway have contingency arrangements (and indeed, we
understand that these will be used to support New Release 2) using multiple
discrete clusters of correspondence servers, the ability of this to scale
(manageably) to full national rollout volumes remains unproven.

The point here is that Pathway are dependent on a further, major release of
core Riposte from Escher - in other words, they are not yet into just a “support

3 We understand that earlier versions of Riposte had a limit of some 5400 terminals per cluster;
although this hard limit has apparently been removed in Riposte 5.3 it is not practical or desirable to
host the full POCL network on a single cluster. Riposte 6/5.4 will, we understand, introduce the
ability for Riposte to split the office population across multiple clusters.

WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ 5 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

7.1.

7.2.

7.3.

74,

8.1.

8.2.

services” phase. We have insufficient visibility to know when this release will
be made or how it fits in with Pathway’s plans, but it demonstrates
Pathway’s ongoing dependency on Escher for development as well as
support.

Recommendation: Seek greater visibility of Escher’s development plans for core
Riposte and Pathway’s requirements for future releases of Riposte. Seek full
information on scaleability constraints of each Riposte release.

PATHWAY’S ARRANGEMENTS WITH ESCHER

ICL Pathway’s response contains a number of assertions regarding support
capability, contractual arrangements and access to source code, but provides
few details as to exact nature of these arrangements

Given the nature of the risk, we may wish to verify ourselves that the
arrangements are valid and that they do indeed adequately mitigate the risk.

For example, ICL Pathway states that they have copies of the source code for
core Riposte, but we have no details of their legal rights with respect to this;
there is little point in ICL Pathway having a copy of the source code if they
would be subject to an injunction from Escher if ever they tried to use it.
Escrow arrangements usually have strict conditions attached, and although
these may cover, for instance, the case where Escher ceases to trade, they
may not mitigate risks relating to a contractual dispute or other breakdown
of relationship between Escher and ICL Pathway.

Recommendation: Seek further detail of the contractual relationship with Escher,
and in particular the precise arrangements which are in place to mitigate their
dependency. This should include their rights regarding access to and use of the
source code, and should seek evidence of the completeness and currency of any
escrowed source code.

CONCLUSION

We believe that ICL Pathway are still highly dependent on Escher Group Ltd
and we have little evidence that this dependency has been significantly
reduced since the award of contract - indeed, the dependency still appears to
greater than would have been expected based on Pathway’s original risk
responses.

Use of third party software in a project of this nature is not unusual, however
the risks need to be appropriately managed by the integrator of the system.
Although this risk was identified by BA/POCL at an early stage in the

WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~ 6 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
WITNO5970117
WITNO5970117

HORIZON PROGRAMME RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL PRODUCT ASSURANCE

programme, there is still no evidence available to us to show that it has been
adequately managed or mitigated.

c:\~data\~info\_postal\uk\pol - horizon\_working and edited Page ~7 of 7
documents\initial submission\23escdep.doc
7th April 1998 Issue 1.0
