Incident 298 (System Stability)

Pathway’s latest response lists some 7 categories of problem that have been diagnosed by
Pathway asa result of this incident. The status of these varies between a fix being produced
and put into service (although lacks the details of when these went into service), a fix
awaiting, distribution, a fix in test, and the problem still under investigation. The response
does not provide a detailed analysis of the cause of each problem or the fixes that have been
implemented.

Until all these fixes are in place and we have had an opportunity to observe the service in live
operation for an adequate period (eg, 2 full CAPs after distribution to all offices), we can have
little confidence that the stability of the system has been adequately improved. The current
level of instability, reported from a live environment in which a number of fixes have
apparently been applied, does not give adequate confidence that the service will be adequate
stable.

A period of monitoring is therefore recommended to provide evidence that these fixes have
indeed have the desired effect, and that these 7 areas of deficiency do indeed account for the
problems experienced during the live trial. This monitoring should be obviously be
performed having removed any manual workarounds (by positive communication with the
outlets if required) to ensure that the fixes would be valid in a “green field” office.

Pathway have not offered a Resolution Plan to handle the underlying, lack of stability in the
system. Given that the system was supposedly of adequate quality when offered to enter
into a live trial, and the number of stability-affecting problems found to date, we would
expect a Resolution Plan aimed at bringing, the overall system stability up to the “industrial
strength” claimed by Pathway. It is insufficient to just attack and resolve the user-visible
signs of instability. This plan could include:

* analysis of the complete design and code to look for similar faults (ie faults caused by
similar design and/or coding errors to those behind these 7 problem areas)

* execution of further specific tests aimed at flushing out any aspects of instability which
are current hidden but may be exhibited when the system is modified in some way (eg,
with new reference data, new software).

© analysis of the design, development, test and integration methods and controls to
determine what corrective actions can be taken to avoid such faults “slipping through the
net” for future release.

[NB. POCL dispute the validity of the table attached to the latest Pathway response giving
the number of faults identified from helpdesk calls]

Specific points

Problem (1) (6) It is not clear from the Status of "Fixes produced and in service" where the
quantification of the effectiveness of the fix is shown.

Problem (2) is still being, diagnosed. No forecast on analysis or remedy or deployment
and measure of fix.

Problem (3) (4) (8) fix yet to be deployed and effectiveness quantified.

Problem (7) fix still to be proven and then deployed

WITNO5970125
WITN05970125
