WITNO5970120
WITN05970120

AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

AI 298 - System stability

1. Dispute

Severity Assessment: Pathway: MEDIUM = POCL: HIGH

«...Pathway have been extremely reluctant to acknowledge that they have a system stability
problem and to take appropriate action

© Pathway’s ability. to identify cuttet-alfecting fiults reported te. the Helpdesk as problems
has been broug! 2 the use of wboots as a

universal panacea, wit

+ unless the system stability problem is “handed effectively, the current level of incidents is
likely to increase

© a large number of different causes of instability have been ident

her of areas. suggesting a widespread s

fied, fixes ina

gui

emic problem in Pathvay’s approach to
development a to release, {fir
this is damning, but J think it’s probably the biggest point - even if Pathway address
cach of the visible causes of instability, we have lithe confidence thar more are.
lurking - either ax instability ov integrity problems -.as a result of their anprogeht.

‘* most incidents are visible to the customer and directly impact the service they get

+ the public’s perception of the Post Office service and brand will be adversely affected

nw:

nd ia the effectiveness of their testing of the service pi

Rectification Plan: Not agreed

© Pathway’s current approach is to fix individual symptoms rath root
causes

»._.t0 enable roll-out to start Pathway must evidence a professional approach to rectification

and demonstrate a consistent reduction in incident rates

2. Description of Deficiency

Evidence from the live trial shows that the counter system is unstable and lacking the
‘industrial strength’ necessary for a production environment. This is evidenced by:

system-level error messages such as Out of Virtual Memory being displayed to end-users
back and front office printing problems such as printer hanging

general system faults such as frozen screens and menu icons rendered unusable (in
circumstances when this should not be the case) by having barred symbols.

All of these incidents result in disruption to the service in the outlet, and the more severe of
them result in loss of service for significant periods, requiring users to call the helpdesk and
then to reboot the system:

This Acceptance Incident was originally raised on 1/7/99 as a result of mis-directed calls to
POCL’s Live Trail Support Centre. As these calls should have been made to the Horizon

System Helpdesk (HSH), POCL was eoncemed that Pathway's Problem Management function
was not iduntifviagrapexteng this as a problem.

Mavagemest Database (once this was made available te POCL) coufianed that a number of

therefore asked to see the HSH log to determine the position. Access was refused (see John
Bennett letter of xxx attached (DN I hope someone’s got a copy). It was not until Peter
Copping, the Dispute Resolution Expert, directed Pathway that access to the HSH Log
was given to POCL on the 15" July. (Zhis is when Pathway announced to us that we could

huge gocess, we fiest looked at it au the 26" OS-—bevempcde-yow

Despite mounting evidence to the contrary, Pathway continued to report that the System
Stability incidents were under control, and were in fact falling as a result of the LT? release.
As late as the MR session on 12/8/99, Pathway reported that there were 6 System Stability

Version 0.6d Page J T/27/202208/20/9908:20/99
AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

incidents in the key Wednesday/Thursday period of week 18/19 (see attached). POCL’s
analysis indicated there were about 90.

To resolve such differences, and directed by Peter Coping, ICL Pathway and POCL Business
Service Management carried out a joint analysis of calls made to the Horizon System
Helpdesk of system stability incidents. This analysis covered week 19, the period from 29
July 1999 until 4 August 1999. Comparison with recent weeks indicates a similar rate of calls.
The size of the network is 323 offices with 821 counter positions. ‘The number of incidents
per week in this population is shown below.

Incident Reboot Required I Other Recovery I Total for Week
“Error Messag 14 4 18
Back Office Printer 19 18 37
Counter Printer 13 25 38
General System Faults I 34 46 80
Others Reboot Classifications 40 0 40].
Total 120 93 213

‘The detail of the analysis is attached. POCL believe Pathway agree these numbers except for
the “other reboot classifications” which they wish to exclude. Pathway have not analysed
these incidents and so cannot confirm the classification or give an explanation of their cause.
POCL consider that these should be included as part of this Acceptance Incident.

‘These numbers of reported incidents are the lower limit to the true incidence, since users with
recurring problems may learn the re-boot fix and apply it themselves rather than reporting the
problem to the HSH, as evidenced from a POCL telephone survey of offices. Poor help desk
performance against service levels (AI 408) may have increased this effect. POCL requested
that Pathway undertake an analysis of the system event logs to assess the extent of under-
reporting of events requiring a system re-boot, but Pathway have not done this.

Pathway say they have undertaken analysis of the causes of these incidents, but this analysis
has not been shared with POCL. No explanation has been given on why these incidents are
ovcurring._ {Mis - is the frctwally correct? Agreed the landscape table of 8 “problem areus”
which thes have supplied under the Al doesn’t give the analysis, bur could ther say thar the
Leoblem Management Darabase, available to Dave Mel, in BSM, gives this, for each of the
PinlCLS? 1 don’s kuow what analysis, if any, is happening with that, but we don't want ro
shoot outself in the foot if they cam suy we do.f

Although these problems with system instability have been repeatedly raised with Pathway,
there does not seem to have been significant effort deployed to analyse, establish the root
cause and fix them until after completion of the core observation period. It appears that this
‘was partly because Pathway’s help desk and service management MIS systems did not provide
the diagnostic data that would have enabled an earlier understanding of the extent of the
problem and prompted deployment of appropriate Pathway resources to rectify it. Instead,
early efforts in this area seem to have been focused on a failed attempt to collect evidence that
the problem was less prevalent than POCL users were perceiving.

The sheer sumber and type of instability problems eauses concum about the underlying causes
belund these faults and potential weak:

es in Pathway’s development and test approach,

ses have been
ner sinilag

In particolar, there is litle evidence o demoastrate tha’ the undedying ©

1 is being perforued to detect o
operation,

addressed and we are unaware of ay analysis 1

bility

system z to liv

nesses prior to rk

Business Impact

Version 0.64 Page 2. T/2T/202208/20/9908/20/99

Commented [POCL1]:

WITNO5970120
WITN05970120

‘Commented [POCL2]:

WITNO5970120
WITN05970120

AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

The impact on POCL’s business varies with the different circumstances of the failure. POCL
has undertaken an analysis of the incidents to determine, for each incident type, the impact in
terms of:

1. Customer Service. Many of these incidents occur whilst serving customers. This will
impact the customers in a number of ways:

* for the customer being served, there will be the inconvenience of having to go to
another counter fo be served. The impact of this will be worse on peak days. In single
position (currently 42% of the network) there will be a delay conservatively estimated
at 10 to 25 minutes before the customer can be served. (This is estimated as follows:

10 minutes, whilst the user realises he/she has a problem, contacts Pathway’s Horizon
System Helpdesk (see also Al 408 for Acceptance Incident on poor HSH response
times), explain the problem, discuss the activity leading up to the freeze, consider the
solution proposed by the HSH and then implement the solution. Where a re-boot of the
system is required, as in 56% of occurrences, there will be an additional 15 minute
delay while the system recovers. During this time the customer may be served in
manual fall-back mode, if available. althous!
automated processing feg AP fallback - takes longer 10 get dunough, more rish of
e17Gran. and once we ger to AP Smart, there is uo fallbgek]

© for other customers waiting to be served, there will be a knock-on effect resulting in

delays to their being served. This will result in loss of business as some customers will

vote with their feet. For those intending to pay bills this could result in non-payment
and even disconnection

general public’s perception of the service will be affected. A failure of service will be

visible to anyone in the post office. Incidents at the frequency we are currently

observing is likely to be a matter of discussion within the community, and the poor
perception of the automated service could well be reported in local and national press.

This will damage the Post Office brand.

s.taay be slower and fess reliable

Users. For the users, there will be considerable inconvenience resulting from each

cident:

* users will have to spend additional time: recovering the service (see above); recovering
transactions undertaken in manual fall-back mode; on back office activity disrupted by
the incidents

* users will be unable to provide a good service to their customers. As has been
evidenced in the Live Trial, the lack of system stability is considerably undermining
their confidence in the automated service.

when combined with the poor response from the HSH (AI 408) there is a danger that
sub-postmasters will refuse to use the system. POCL believe that at the current level of
incidents there is a significant danger that resistance to accepting the new system will
spread throughout the office network. Without sub-postmaster co-operation, the roll-
out cannot take place.

© delays in the production of the Cask Account

Other significant impacts are:

3. increase in Horizon System Helpdesk and Network Business Service Ccentre Helpdesk:
calls resulting in general degradation of support to other outlets and the consequential cost
to help recover the service.

4, the risk of data corruption during a re-boot incident, Until a detailed analysis of a sample
of representative incidents is undertaken (including the consequence on POCL’s back-end
processing) POCL cannot be sure that data is not being lost or corrupted.

5. the risk of errors generated in fall-back impacting POCL Transaction Processing (see AI
390 for an example of shortfall in service in fall-back mode)

6. the business will be exposed to fraudulent activities as losses can be attributed to the
system

Version 0.6d Page 3. 7/27/202208/20 9908:

AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

7._client SLA/confidence. POCL may not be meeting clients’ service level requirements
because we cannot serve the customers. The clients will also be affected through errors
occurring as a result of a system failure
ae amines the eredibil

system: for management of one busi
nof staff or
iMin. ie uve of evidence front dhe service in
court would be laughable if jt comes out that it crashed regularly during the Cash

decousn ete}

outlets
subnostioasiens of the recovery of fun

the use.

{it for investigation and any subsequent pro

As these problems have yet to be resolved there is evidence that users are rebooting the system
themselves without calling the Horizon System Helpdesk (as shown in the joint week 19
analysis attached (10), and from POCL’s week 19 telephone survey (46). This further
increases the risk that transactions would be lost impacting customers and clients and that
unknown problems would not be identified by ICL Pathway.

Severity Rating
Pathway’s Severity Rating MEDIUM
POCL’s Severity Rating: HIGH

‘The frequency of the instability. problems. end subsequent-reboots is end-unacceptable,

Each system stability incident has a significant impact on the POCL business. POCL estimate
that over 80% (DN Dave Mac’s and Min B’s back of envelope calculation - anyone got
anything better?) of these incidents will have a substantive impact on customer servic!
on eritical business activities suel

There are many manifestations of the problem. We do not know if these represent separate
root causes, or whether some are related to more fundamental problems. There is no agreed
root cause analysis, nor has Pathway been in a position to participate in a joint Pathway/POCL
analysis of the consequence of these incidents.

The POCL vision is to be “the UK’s number one choice for the important business of
everyday life”. We act as an agent providing value chain between our customers and clients,
with integrity and trust being key to the way we gain and retain business in a highly
competitive marketplace which offers alternative channels.

POCL’s strategy is predicated on growing extremely competitive and high quality service
which builds on the major trust and integrity attributes of the brand. Aggressive plans to gain
competitive advantage by emphasising the unique selling point of our extensive network of
post offices depend on POCL and Pathway’s ability to offer a credible service whieh is fit for
purpose against an increasingly competitive environment. Persuading existing and potential
clients to rely on using POCL as the sole ‘outlet’ provider of finaneial services on their behalf,
is key to achieving this overall strategic aim

Severe system instability problems which may occur if the current problems are not properly
addressed will totally undermine this strategy.

Version 0.6d Page 4. 7/27/202208/20 9908:

WITNO5970120
WITN05970120
WITNO5970120
WITN05970120

AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

POCL assess this Acceptance Incident as High because it clearly comes under the contractual
definition of High as "Failure to meet an Acceptance Criterion which would have a substantive
impact on the service received by the customer". This results from (a) the current level of
occurrence, (b) the associated impact on business costs, income and service levels to
customers; (¢) the associated impact on customer, client and user perception, (d) the absence
of any rigorous analysis of the cause and therefore the risk of increased future occurrence as
the system loading increases (e) (DN rumours that Keith Baines has an (¢
(fin we could also justify it on Security, frou whet {remember of the high level criteria,
although this might he red rag to the bull. heirh may he able ro advive on interpretations

Rectification Plan

Rectification is required before the start of roll-out.

POCL’s requirements for reducing the severity to Medium are:
‘* Pathway to produce a rectification plan for this Acceptance Incident

+ Pathway to develop an open approach to managing the problem aimed at restoring POCL’s
confidence that it is being effectively addressed

simi

fralts (ie faults caus

od by similar design or coding
defensive measures where applicable

vay feg with new re
of the od

ace data, or new software drop)

ign. develgnmen id integration metiods and controls to
y fazlts of this nature were intro
aux! to determine

dand were net detested at the
{corrective actions cam be laien to avoid suck,
through the nel en future refeases

DNawhaie ightwards-ve% yo odeneribethe-holistie.
review).as well as root cause analysis of individual categories of incident

POCL to agree Pathway’s approach to monitoring and reporting incidents

Pathway and POCL to agree objective criteria for measuring System Stability and the
targets for key milestones in the rectification plan

Version 0.64 Page 5. T/2T/202208/20/9908/20/99
WITNO5970120
WITN05970120

AL298 ~ System Stability DRAFT. Commercial in Confidence

Analysis of System Stability Issues Version 4

[Out of Virtual Memory. 4] 4 4
[Unable to Contact HQ 0
[Critical Event 3
Stock Declaration ¢ 9] 10] 4 4
[Total Error Messages 1s

Spurious Printing 4

[Printer Hung 26] 19] 14] 33
[Out of Paper 2 2 2
[Printing Paper Jam 2 2 2

otal Back Office Printer Probs

[Printing NO receipts 38 13 38
Lock Out 1 1 1
Frozen Screen 4 14 I

fo Entry 3 I

[No Icon’

[Blue Screen
Dr Watson Message

Sum of general system faults

Jser initiated reboot
[Application problems

incorrect reboot advice 8 3 8
[Others(balancing figure) 10 10] 10
[Total Other reboots 40 40] 40

[Overall Total

ion-live outlets 7
Hardware faults 6
Power failures etc 8]
Wrongly classifed codes io)

POCL consider that these should be included as part of this Acceptance Incident and proper

root cause analysis and rectification undertaken:

‘© user initiated reboots (10): POCL’s analysis of these calls, discussed with Pathway,
indicated that this was probably the right course of action

* application problems (12): these are clearly destabilising the system

* incorrect re-boot advice (8): the wrong advice from Pathway is destabilising the system

others (10): Pathway authorised these reboots presumably because there was no other

course of action, Until the incidents are analysed and an alternative cause given, these

should be part of this Al

Version 0.6d Page 6. T/27/202208/20/9908:20/99
