WITNO0340112
WITNO0340112

AWU

The communications union

Re: finsert me 7s name] - Issuing of [insert penalty]
Further to my previous letters objecting to the use of the Conduct Code, I understand that you have written
é hem] with a penalty of [insert penalty] following a charge of
date it occurred]

As you will be aware, the correct procedure to deal with such losses is the Losses and Gains Procedure,
which is not only agreed with the CWU; it is also contractual, being part of the Crown Office Staffing
Agreement (COSA). Please find enclosed a copy of the agreed Losses & Gains Procedure for your reference.

May I draw your attention in particular to the following:

«The Conduct Code is clear that it applies to matters of conduct, and not capability. It specifies the
use of the Losses and Gains Procedure instead.

e The Losses & Gains Procedure states “Any colleague whose balancing record falls below the
standard will need to be dealt with under the ‘escalation process” it then goes on to clarify what is
considered to be below standard in the Escalation Process (i.e. 3 losses of £30 or more in a 13 week
period).

It further states “To ensure there is a consistent approach across the whole Crown Office estate, all
offices will comply with the actions matrix, without exception. In that way Managers ensure all
offices are delivering a consistent approach to loss management within their respective offices”.

I must make it clear that on behalf of our member I fundamentally object to the inappropriate use of the
Conduct Code instead of the agreed Losses & Gains Procedure. Indeed, Martin Rouse, former Regional
Manager, committed at a recent meeting with the Union to ensuring that all managers use the collectively
agreed Losses and Gains Procedure as “their first port of call”. I would therefore urge you to rescind the
penalty that you awarded. I would be grateful if you could confirm as a matter of urgency that you will do
so, and instead of using the Conduct Code, that the Losses & Gains Procedure will be used.

If, despite this letter, you confirm the award of a disciplinary penalty, please note I will have no hesitation in
supporting our member at an Appeal. I will naturally make it clear that you are acting outside of the agreed
procedures. I will also be reporting this breach of the Losses & Gains Procedure to our Headquarters who
have already been in discussions with senior Post Office management regarding our concerns in this
matter. Furthermore I will be encouraging our member to lodge a formal grievance against the
inappropriate use of the Conduct Code.

In view of the above, I look forward to you rescinding the disciplinary penalty.

Yours sincerely

Enc
