WITN04600305
WITN04600305

From: Brunskill Richard[/O=ICL/OU=UKSOUTH FEL01/CN=RECIPIENTS/CN=BRUNSKILLR]
Sent: Wed 18/02/2004 8:40:20 AM (UTC)

To: Holmes Jan R[Jan.Holme:
Subject: RE: Old Contract SLAs
Below

oe Original Message-----

From: Holmes Jan R

Sent: 18 February 2004 08:19

To: Brunskill Richard

Subject: Old Contract SLAs

Richard,

The Cleveley's situation has us a bit on the back foot and I'm having to bring in POL imposed SLAs as a form of
justification for HSH advice being to reboot 9 times out of 10. Their expert has claimed that this is unacceptable and
greater effort should have been put into undeerstanding the cause of the blue scree/freeze/lock or whatever it was
that caused the call to be made.

A line of defence is to bring into play the SLAs that we were obliged to work to at the time. So I'm interested in the
following stuff and whether they were contractually binding during 2000 :

1. Time to fault resolution from original call and how was fault resolution defined - getting the Outlet back up or fully
resolving the problem?

Depends on the issue, simple advice and guidance at the time (pre SPOC) centred around resolution in 5, 10, 30 or
45 mins depending on the query. Blue screens or system freezes would generally have been coded as "Software"
and claimed under break fix SLT's, which, depending on the branches location, fall into the local, intermediate or
remote category with anything from 4 to 24 hours to fix. I would expect a software call to be resolved by either a re-
boot, work around or kit swap.The underlying issue is not subject to SLA - this can be fixed as per release timetable
etc, the issue under the SLA is "get the branch up and running again". Hence the proliferation of re-boots to solve
known problems and get things going.

2. Anything about limits of calls from a single Outlet?

No limits

3. Why would ROHD calls be coming to HSH?

Established practice during roll out - a way of logging issues from Romec and or the PM during installation or post
installation

4. Was any post call analysis undertaken if a consistent series of calls was being received from a single Outlet?
Yes usually, this is how the old Field Service Managers were spurted into action,,,,usually where an outlet (I think)
had more than 10 calls in a specific time - talk to Nick Crow for more details, my memory is a bit dodgy here.

We are going to talk sometime this morning.

Cheers,

Jan Holmes
Programme Assurance

___ GRO

Mob C
e-mail : jan.holmes _ _GR
This e-mail is only for the use tended tents are confidential and may be privileged. Fujitsu Services does not guarantee that

this e-mail has not been intercepted and amended or that it is virus-free.
