WITNO2100101
WITNO2100101

Witness Name: Ms Janet Bradbury
Statement No.: WITNO210_01

THE POST OFFICE HORIZON INQUIRY

EXHIBIT WITNO210_01/1

WITNO2100101
WITNO2100101

11 April 2011 Bond Pearce LLP
Ballard House
West Hoe Road
Plymouth PL1 3AE

Mrs J C Bradbury

Our ref:
KS8/KIS2/364065.420
Your ref:

Dear Madam

Our Client - Post Office Limited, 1° Floor, 148 Old Street, London, EC1V 9HQ.
Debtor: Mrs Janet Christine Bradbury (You)
Letter Before Claim

You entered into an agreement with our client, the Post Office Limited following the termination of your
contract for services as subpostmaster of Clun Post Office. By way of a subpostmasters contract and the
signed Acknowledgement of Appointment accepted the said terms. Whilst you were a subpostmaster net
losses arose amounting to the sum of £8,504.82 (the Debt). In accordance with the terms of
subpostmaster contract you agreed to make good any losses (the Agreement). You have not paid sums
due and owing to our client under the terms of the Agreement and we have been instructed by our client
to recover from you the sum of £8,504.82 (the Debt). Our client intends to rely on the Agreement, any
associated Terms and Conditions, any correspondence between the parties and any contemporaneous
evidence that exists in support of its claim.

The Debt is calculated as detailed in the attached Statement of Debt.
Payment of the Debt should be made to this office quoting the reference number se

your cheque payable to Bond Pearce LLP. Alternatively, you may contact writer oni
discuss payment options. Our address and reference are set out above.

If you dispute the debt, either in full or in part, please provide a full response to this letter within 14 days
with a detailed explanation of why the claim is not accepted. You should also provide us with copies of any
documents you rely upon. We consider that Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), such as without
prejudice negotiation or mediation, might be mor ji jitigation. Accordingly, in order to discuss
hi roi Alternatively, you can contact our ciient

ast Office Limited Agents Debt Team 3, No 1 Future Walk, West Bars, Chesterfield. S49 1PF
RO

You may obtain free independent legal advice and assistance from any of the independent legal advice
organisations, some of which are:

. Consumer Credit Counselling Service (CCCS) Tel: Freephonei..

é National Debtline

If you intend to approach either of the above detailed independent legal advice organisations which may
cause Your response to this letter being delayed, you should contact us within 14 days from the date of
this letter informing us that that you are seeking advice. You should also inform us of who You are
obtaining advice from and furthermore when You anticipate to be in a position to provide us with Your
response to this letter.

Bond Pearce LLP, a Limited Liability Partnership, Registered in England and Wales number OC311430
Registered office: 3 Temple Quay Temple Back East Bristol BS1 6DZ. VAT number GB143 0262 07.

A list of members (ll of whom are solicitors of England and Wales or registered foreign lawyers) of Bond Pearce is open for Inspection at the registered office.
We use the word “partner” to refer to a member of the LLP, or an employee or consultant who is a lawyer with equivalent standing and qualifications.
Regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. ‘www.bondpearce.com
WITNO2100101
WITNO2100101

We draw your attention to the Practice Direction on Pre-Action Conduct (PDPAC) contained in the Civil
Procedure Rules 1998 and in particular to paragraph 4 of the PDPAC concerning the court’s power to
impose sanctions for failure to comply with the PDPAC. If we do not receive your acknowledgment or
response within 14 days from the date of this letter we shall issue proceedings against you without further
notice. This may increase your liability for costs.

We await hearing from you.

Yours faithfully

Bond Pearce LLP

Enciosures
1 Statement of Debt
2 Subpostmaster’s Contract —- Acknowledgment of Appointment

www.bondpearce.com = —P2/2,
